World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3215 POL

               (Energy Resource Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                  THE POLISH OIL AND GAS COMPANY

                        Dated July 2, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3215 POL

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and THE POLISH OIL AND GAS
COMPANY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance (the Cofinanciers) loans (the Cofinanciers’ loans) in an
aggregate amount equivalent to sixty million United States dollars
($60,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinanciers’ Loan Agree-
ments) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers;
and

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date

herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)    "Act" means Regulation 56 of 1982 of the Guarantor’s
Minister of Mining and Energy, pertaining to the establishment and
operations of the Borrower;

      (b)   "Coordinating Unit" means the Borrower’s Project
coordinating unit to be maintained in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and

      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the National Bank
of Poland on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of

Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate

administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices
and safety, health and environmental standards satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. In order to: (a) assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, as needed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (b)   facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain the Coordinating Unit with resources and under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices and appropriate
safety, health and environmental standards under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition; and (ii) without
limitation on the generality of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph,
develop, by December 31, 1991, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, and thereafter apply accounting practices for its
natural gas exploration activities which the Bank agrees are
adequate to reflect all costs associated with such activities.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses, funds flow and related statements) and
                  the records and accounts for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than seven months after the
                  end of each such year (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
                  tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending December 31, 1990, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual average of the
Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year.

      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, all such
measures required on its part for adjustments of the structure or
levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources relat-
                        ed to operations, consumer deposits and
                        consumer contributions in aid of construc-
                        tion, net non-operating income and any
                        reduction in working capital other than
                        cash; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions, including administration, adequate
                        maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu

of taxes (excluding provision for deprecia-
                        tion and other non-cash operating charges),
                        debt service requirements all cash divi-
                        dends and other cash distributions of
                        surplus, increase in working capital other
                        than cash and other cash outflows other
                        than capital expenditures.

           (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)   The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  fiscal year.

           (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under circumstances then existing be called for
                  payment within twelve months, including accounts
                  payable, customer advances, debt service require-
                  ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  dividends.

           (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

          (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
                  ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations and exploration activities.

         (viii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
                  able to the Bank.

      Section 5.03 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least
1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the
Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower,
including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the

Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally in-
                  curred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources relat-
                        ed to operations adjusted to take account
                        of the Borrower’s prices in effect at the
                        time of the incurrence of debt even though
                        they were not in effect during the twelve-
                        month period to which such revenues relate
                        and net non-operating income; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

           (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
                  able to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      (b)   Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section:

            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                  ceeds of any loan or grant made to the Borrower
                  for the financing of the Project shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in

part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or

           (ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (c)   Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment.

      Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The event specified in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur.

      (b)   The event specified in Section 6.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Cofinanciers Loan Agreements have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                          ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Polish Oil and Gas Company
            00-537 Warsaw
            6/14 Krucza St.
            Republic of Poland

Telex:

                                      813466

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                        THE POLISH OIL AND GAS COMPANY

                        By /s/ M. Kaczmarczyk
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated         % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Goods                   220,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)

(2)   Consultants’             10,000,000       100% of foreign
      services and                              expenditures
      training

(3)   Unallocated              20,000,000

                              ___________

       TOTAL                  250,000,000
                              ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no

withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
May 1, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
increasing its natural gas production and in improving its manage-
ment and operations.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Carrying out of programs to increase natural gas production,
storage and transmission, including:

1.    rehabilitation of presently producing gas fields through
      upgrading of gas compression in four fields, infill and
      development drilling of about 250 additional wells, rehabili-
      tation of about 1,000 existing wells and installation of
      improved underground production equipment on producing wells;

2.    delineation and evaluation of discovered gas fields through
      appraisal drilling of about 40 wells and stimulation and
      production testing of about 35 wells;

3.    increasing the capacity of the gas transmission system through
      the installation and operation of additional compressor units,
      expansion of the Southern, South-western and North-eastern
      transmission networks by about 850 additional kilometers of
      pipelines and the conversion of an existing coke oven trans-
      mission network serving about 800,000 consumers to a network
      for the transmission and distribution of natural gas;

4.    expansion of underground gas storage capacity through the
      development of two additional storage caverns with about
      300,000 cubic meters capacity each and the installation and
      operation of the necessary surface facilities, including
      compressor units and transmission pipelines to connect said
      caverns to the gas transmission system; and

5.    installation of gas treatment and desulfurization facilities.

Part B:

      Provision of a suitable computerized supervisory control and
data acquisition system to be utilized in the development and
application of an optimum operational mode for the gas transmission
system to reduce system losses.

Part C:

      Performance evaluation of pilot plants for gas desulfuriza-
tion.

Part D:

(1)   Provision of studies to: (a) assess the technical feasibility
and prepare designs for the importation of liquified natural gas;
(b) introduce a suitable management information system; and (c)
develop and implement improved gas field operations.

(2)   Provision of technical assistance and training to improve
capabilities in up-stream gas operations relating to production and
down-stream gas operations.

* * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      On each January 1 and July 1

            beginning January 1, 1996
            through January 1, 2007         10,415,000

      On July 1, 2007                       10,455,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                     The interest rate (ex-
                                     pressed as a percentage
                                     per annum) applicable to
                                     the Loan on the day of pre-
                                     payment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank

in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items which the Bank agrees are supplied
through a limited number of sources, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $10,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Goods which the Bank agrees the timely supply thereof is
critical for efficient Project, are of a proprietary nature or need
to be compatible with other installed equipment, may be awarded
after direct negotiations with the suppliers thereof, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each of the first five contracts for
goods and therafter each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to: (a) consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in

August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

 1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $17,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits

into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.     (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.