World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3202 KO

                          Loan Agreement

              (Second Technology Advancement Project)

                              between

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 10, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3202 KO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 10, l990, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "KAIST" means the Korea Advanced Institute of Science
and Technology;

      (b)   "GEC" means the Genetic Engineering Center;

      (c)   "KSRI" means the Korea Standards Research Institute;

      (d)   "KIER" means Korea Institute of Energy and Resources;

      (e)   "KAIST Special Account", "GEC Special Account", "KSRI
Special Account", and "KIER Special Account" mean the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (f)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
sub-paragraph (e) above, collectively.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty one million six
hundred thousand dollars ($31,600,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of respective Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project, open and maintain in dollars special
deposit accounts in the Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the respective
provisions of Schedules 5, 6, 7 and 8 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
KAIST, GEC, KSRI and KIER with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause KAIST, GEC, KSRI
and KIER to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices their operations and
financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall cause KAIST, GEC, KSRI and KIER to:

            (i)   have their records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for their respective Special
                  Accounts for each financial year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of their
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning such records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause KAIST, GEC, KSRI and KIER to:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the financial
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditures submitted during such financial
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                     ARTICLE V

                          Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause KAIST, GEC, KSRI and
KIER to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and educational
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General

Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
KAIST, GEC, KSRI or KIER, or for the suspension of their operations.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  MOF                            K23243
                  Kwachon, Korea

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       82987 (FTCC)
                  Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA)
                                                 197688 (TRT) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                        By /s/ Sohn Myung Hyun
                                         Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment and            12,000,000)        100% of foreign
    materials for                      )        expenditures,
    KAIST under                        )        100% of local
    Part A of the                      )        expenditures
    Project                            )        (ex-factory
                                       )        cost) and 65%
(2) Equipment and             4,000,000)        of local ex-
    materials for                      )        penditures for
    GEC under                          )        other items
    Part B of the                      )        procured locally
    Project                            )
                                       )
(3) Equipment and             6,000,000)
    materials for                      )
    KSRI under                         )
    Part C of the                      )
    Project                            )
                                       )
(4) Equipment and             9,600,000)
    materials for                      )
    KIER under                         )
    Part D of the                      )
    Project                            )

                              __________

         TOTAL                31,600,000
                              ==========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to improve the research and
development capacities in the fields of science, engineering, bio-
technology, standards measurement and in the energy and resource
development and conservation in the Republic of Korea.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     KAIST

      The carrying out of a program by KAIST to improve the quality
of science and engineering research through acquisition of
specialized equipment and consumable materials.

Part B:     GEC

      The carrying out of a program by GEC to improve its research
and development capacity to provide technical services to the
biotechnology industry through acquisition of specialized equipment
and consumable materials, and construction of associated civil
works.

Part C:     KSRI

      The carrying out of a program by KSRI of strengthening its
capacity in measurement standards and improving its capacity to
provide technical support to industry through acquisition of
specialized equipment and consumable materials, and construction of
associated civil works.

Part D:     KIER

      The carrying out of a program by KIER of research relating to
resources, energy and minerals development, through acquisition of
specialized equipment and consumable materials.

                           *  *  *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

      beginning November 15, 1995
      through May 15, 2005                1,580,000