World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3207 ME

  (Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

       BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.

                        Dated June 5, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3207 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 4, 1990
from the UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) describing a program
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Guarantor’s road transport and telecommunications
sectors (hereinafter called the "Program"), declaring the
Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of imports
required during such execution;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake all other obligations set forth in the
Guarantee Agreeemnt; and

(C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Guarantor by making the Loan to the Borrower in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank, the Guarantor and
      the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a joint
      report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
      reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred
      to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by
      the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Guarantee and Loan Agreements and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and

      (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Guarantor,
beginning on January 1 of each year;

      (b)   "QRs" means quantitative restrictions placed by the
Guarantor on imported goods;

      (c)   "Non-tariff Barriers" means any form of restriction,
other than the levy of a tariff, on imports, including QRs.

      (d)   "FERRONALES" means Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico,
the national railway agency of the Guarantor;

      (e)   "Peso" means the Currency of the Guarantor;

      (f)   "SCT" means Secretaria de Communicaciones y Transportes
(Secretariat of Communications and Transport) of the Guarantor;

      (g)   "TELMEX" means Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V., a
telephone company established originally as a private enterprise by
an Escritura Constitutiva No. 34726, dated December 23, 1947, and
subsequently taking the character of a parastatal enterprise since
November 1, 1972 with majority ownership by the Guarantor;

      (h)   "TELMEX Privatization Plan" means the plan, satis-
factory to the Bank, submitted by the Guarantor to the Bank on May
4, 1990, to sell the Guarantor’s equity shares in TELMEX to private
entities in the domestic and international markets, including a
time-table, satisfactory to the Bank, to implement such plan;

      (i)   "TELECOMM" means Telecomunicaciones de Mexico, a

decentralized public enterprise of the Guarantor established by
Presidential Decree of November 17, 1989, published in the Diario
Oficial de la Federacion dated November 17, 1989, and which is
wholly-owned by the Guarantor; and

      (j)   "SPP" means Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto,
the Secretariat of Planning and Budgeting of the Guarantor.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred eighty million dollars ($380,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                Transfer of Funds; Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor,
providing, inter alia, for relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Guarantor on the same terms and conditions as are set forth in
Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of this Agreement. Except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank, and the Gua-
rantor pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement,
shall, on a quarterly basis and at the request of any party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program
and the actions specified in the Schedule to the Guarantee
Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, and
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Guarantee
Agreement, shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, a
report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the
matters specified in paragraph (a) of this Section.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall on January 1, April 1,
July 1, and October 1 of each year submit to the Bank a report
verifying under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank that the
goods with respect to which withdrawal applications have been
submitted during the previous three months were eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the loan.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its
operations and financial condition, including separate records and
accounts reflecting the resources and the expenditures in respect of
the Project.

(b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                  above and its financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements), for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  and qualified auditors;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of such
                  financial statement so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accord-
                  ance with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least
                  one year after the Bank has received the audit
                  report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the proce-dures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement shall have been executed.

Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and are
legally binding upon them in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date September 4, 1990 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)

      For the Borrower:

            Banco Nacional de Obras y
              Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
            Insurgentes Norte 423
            Mexico, D.F. 069000
            Mexico

      Cable address:                 Telex:

                  BANTE CARIO                BN DSME
                  Mexico City                01772619
                                             Mexico City

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

              BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.

By /s/ German Sandoval Faz
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group              Sub-group           Description of item

      112                    -               Alcoholic beverages

      121                    -               Tobacco, unmanufac-
                                             tured, tobacco
                                             refuse

      122                    -               Tobacco, manufactured
                                             (whether or not con-
                                             taining tobacco sub-
                                             stitutes)

      525                    -               Radioactive and
                                             associated materials

      667                    -               Pearls, precious and
                                             semi-precious stones,
                                            worked or unworked

      718                  718.7             Nuclear reactors,
                                             and parts thereof,
                                             fuel elements
                                             (cartridges), non-
                                             irradiated for
                                             nuclear reactors

      Group              Sub-group           Description of item

      897                  897.3             Jewelry of gold,
                                             silver or platinum,
                                             group metals (except
                                             watches and watch
                                            cases) and gold-
                                           smiths’ or silver-
                                             smiths’ wares
                                             (including set gems)

      971                    -               Gold, non-monetary
                                             (excluding gold ores
                                           and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $76,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1990;

(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (f)   expenditures for crude oil, foodstuffs or goods intended
for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
and

      (g)   expenditures for goods, the importation of which is
subject to Non-tariff Barriers in Mexico.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $190,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement and Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   with the progress achieved by the Guarantor in the
carrying out of the Program;

      (b)   that the Guarantor’s macroeconomic framework is
consistent with the Program; and

      (c)   that the actions described in the Schedule to the
Guarantee Agreement have been taken (all calculations "in real
terms" referred to in clauses 1, 2 and 3 of such Schedule to be made
in accordance with methodology and assumptions satisfactory to the
Bank); and that the Bank shall be satisfied with (i) the regulations
referred to in clauses 4 and 8, (ii)  the plan of action referred to
in clause 5 (a), (iii) the progress made in implementing the TELMEX
Privatization Plan referred to in clause 6 in accordance with the
time-table included under such Plan, (iv) the program referred to in
clause 7, and (v) the program of action referred to in clause 9 of
such Schedule; provided, however, that in no case shall any withdrawal
be made and any commitment be entered into in excess of such aggregate
amount of the equivalent of $190,000,000 prior to November 15, 1990.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within ninety days after such notice, the
Guarantor shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

6.    Withdrawal applications for disbursements under paragraph (1)
above shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated in aggregate
amounts of not less than $20,000,000 equivalent.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning January 15, 1996

through January 15, 2007            15,835,000

On July 15, 2007                          15,795,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years                         1.00
      before maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

            (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or

(iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Guarantor’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and

      (c)   notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (b)
above, in the case of the purchasers referred to therein, if the
estimated cost of the contract is equivalent to less than
$1,000,000, in accordance with established commercial practices
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.