World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3132 MAS

                    Loan Agreement

               (Second Highways Project)

                        between

                       MAURITIUS

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                   Dated May 7, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3132 MAS

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1990, between MAURITIUS (the
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower

pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 28, 1989
and May 18, 1989 between the Borrower and the Bank; and

     (b)  "MOW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Works.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000) as the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all
unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1994, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a race for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending or the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the B@ drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July I or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through MOW with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause HOW to
prepare and furnish to the Bank by not later than

December 31, 1991, an action program for the monitoring
of ambient air quality standards for vehicle emissions
and proposed standards for vehicle emissions. After
review and comment of said program and standards by the
Bank, the Borrower shall adopt and implement a program
satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MOW to
prepare and furnish to the Bank, by not later than
December 31, 1991, an action program to ensure effective
traffic control. After review and comment of said program
by the Bank, the Borrower shall adopt and implement a
program satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 3.05. For the purpose of implementing Part
F of the Project, the borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
by not later than December 31, 1990, a time-bound
training program covering its fiscal years 1991-1993.

     Section 3.06. (a) Not later than December 31 each
year, the Borrower shall cause MOW to prepare and furnish
to the Bank for its review and comments, a road
maintenance work program covering the period of twelve
months commencing on the following July 1.

     (b)  Each road maintenance work program shall set
out detailed proposals for the period to which it relates
and shall contain information satisfactory to the Bank.

     (c)  After review and comment on each such work
program by the Bank, the Borrower shall cause MOW to make
such revisions to such work program paying due regard to
any comments emanating from the Bank and, except as the
bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause MOW
to carry out such work program for the year in question
as shall have been so revised.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in par&graph (a) of this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case rot later than six months
               after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which

withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

                    Other Covenants

     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause:

     (a)  its road network to be maintained and all
necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance
with appropriate routine and periodic maintenance
practices;

     (b)  its road maintenance and workshop equipment to
be maintained a&id all necessary repairs, renewals and
replacements thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering, administrative and financial
practices; and

     (c)  all such arrangements to be made or actions to
be taken as may be necessary to ensure the timely and
adequate provision of funds, facilities and other
resources required for the purposes set forth in
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the
time responsible for Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          Government House
          Port Louis
          Mauritius

          Cable address:                Telex:

MINFIN                   4249 EXTERN IW
               Port Louis

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.               64145 (WUI)
                                         82987 (FTCC) or
                                        197688 (TRT)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               MAURITIUS

               By /s/ R. Jaddou
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the Proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of this amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Works           16,600,000       65%

(2)    Goods            7,500,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
                                        851 of local
                                        expenditures

(3)    Consultants’     2,500,000       100%
   services and
   training

(4)    Refunding of       410,000       Amount due pur-
   Project Prepara-                     suant to Section
   tion Advance                         2.02 (b) of this
                                        Agreement

(5)    Unallocated                      2,990,000

   TOTAL               30.000,000

2.   For the pu @ sea of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any, country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the data of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower in the: (a) protection of its capital investment
in roads by and improving the service life of important
road sections with high traffic intensity; (b)
strengthening of MOW’s capacity for road maintenance
planning and operations, including traffic management;
and (c) establishment of effective vehicle safety and
emission control standards and procedures.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Strengthening and improving about 50 kilometers
of main roads to the standards set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule 2:

     1.   Black River Road              (28 kilometers)

     2.   Saint Joan Road                (2 kilometers)

     3.   B2 Palma Road             (9 kilometers)

     4.   Flic-en-Flac Road         (7 kilometers)

Part B:   Carrying out of a four-year (FY 1990-1993)
program of resurfacing of about 130 kilometers of roads.

Part C:   Carrying out of a four year (FY 1990-1993)
program of routine maintenance of about 840 kilometers of
main roads and 27 kilometers of motorways, including the
acquisition of equipment, materials and supplies.

Part D:   Improvement of a circulation system and
management of the control of traffic and axle loads,
including the acquisition of equipment, materials and
supplies.

Part E:   Establishment of vehicle safety and emission
control standards through the provision of vehicle
emission monitoring devices, brakes, headlight and front-
end alignment testing equipment.

Part F:   Carrying out of a training program, including
short courses for middle level management personnel and
on-the-job training for technicians and skilled workers,
as well as study tours and seminars and provision of
fellowships.

                       *   *   *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1993.

                         ANNEX

                   Design Standards

     Parameters                         Design Speed

                              40 km/h   60 km/h   80 km/h

Horizontal curves radii in m:

-    Min. desirable           100       240       425
-    Absolute min.             40       120       240

Vertical curves radii in m:

-    Min. desirable crest          1,300
3,000          10,000
-    Absolute min crest       500       1,300
3,000
-    Absolute min. sag             700       1,500
      2,200

Max. Grades %                  8         7           6

Min. sight distances in m:

-    Stopping                  40        80        120
-    Passing                  150       270        350

Shoulders and sidewalks widths in m  1.5          1.5
      1.5

Roadways widths in m               7.4-6.4   7.4-6.4
7.4-6.4

Road crossfall (% Min.)

(a)  Roadway                   2.5       2.5       2.5

(b)  Shoulders                 4.0       4.0       4.0

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

     beginning August 1, 1995
     through February 1, 2007                1,250,000

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable tine of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment            Premium

                         The interest rate (expressed as
                         a percentage) applicable to per
                         to the Loan on the day of
                         repayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but               0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                 0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not          0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years before          1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Pat A:    International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, bidders for
works included in Part B of the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Mauritius may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

     Road maintenance equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,200,000 and specified works under Part

B of the Project up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $2,500,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of Prequalification:

     With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.   (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on tho basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.

3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified far purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.