World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3146 PH

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

        (Second Municipal Development Project)

              REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated January 19, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3146 PH

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1990, between REPUBLIC
OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Local Government Unit" means a municipality or
a city to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made
a Sub-loan;

     (b)  "Municipal Development Fund" means the

Municipal Development Fund established and operating
under Presidential Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984
to provide financial assistance to municipalities and
cities for development projects;

     (c)  "Project Management Office" means the Project
Management Office within the Department of Public Works
and Highways of the Borrower established pursuant to DPWH
Department Order No 78 dated June 6, 1989;

     (d)  "Project Steering Committees means the Project
Steering Committee, established pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984, and comprising
representatives of various departments and agencies of
the Borrower responsible for or involved in the Project;

     (e)  "Special Account" means the account to be
opened and thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;

     (f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower through the Municipal Development
Fund out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Local
Government Unit for the local component of a Sub-project;
and

     (g)  "Sub-project" means a specific development
project with a component to be carried out by the
Borrower (referred to as the national component), and a
component to be carried out by a Local Government Unit
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan (referred to as the
local component).

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000) being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Periods means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund
               (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
               which may be made by the Bank after July
               1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
               otherwise than as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amounts of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out and cause the Local Government Units to carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out and cause the Local
Government Units to carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and
cause to be maintained records and accounts in respect of
the Project and Sub-projects, adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower and Local Government Units
responsible for carrying out the Project or Sub-project
or any part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have and cause the Local Government Units
               to have the records and accounts referred
               to in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including (in the case of the Borrower)
               those for the Special Account for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year, a
               consolidated report of such audits by its
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audits thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain and cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain and cause to be retained, until at
               least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal
               year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Loan Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audits referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the consolidated report of such audits
               contains a separate opinion by its
               auditors as to whether the statements of
               expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

        Termination; Representative; Addresses

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.02. The Secretary of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 5.03. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Secretary of Finance
          Department of Finance
          Manila
          Philippines

          Cable address:           Telex:

               MINFIN                  7550 CBP-PH
               Manila                 40268 CB-CONF

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES

               By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Sub-loans for   19,500,000       100% of the
amount
   Sub-projects                         disbursed under
   under Part A (2)                     the Municipal
   & (3) of the                         Development Fund
   Project

(2)    Civil works      8,500,000       60%
   under Part A (1)
   of the Project

(3)    Goods and        5,500,000       100% of the
   services under                       amount disbursed
   Part B of the                        by the Depart-
   Project                              ment of Finance

(4)    Unallocated      6,500,000

       TOTAL           40,000,000

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made:

     (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement; and

(b)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan
has been made in accordance with the procedures and on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Parts B and C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist
local governments to provide basic infrastructure,
services and facilities especially to lower income
communities; and (ii) strengthen the financial, technical
and managerial capabilities of Local Government Units.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Sub-projects

1.   National Components

     Basic Infrastructure: Construction of wells,
dredging, construction and rehabilitation of collector
drains, creeks and other major drainage facilities;
improvement of national roads and minor drainage along
such roads.

2.   Local Components

     (a)  Basic Infrastructure: Installation of communal
faucets; construction of wells; construction of communal
sanitation facilities; construction and rehabilitation of
drainage canals and pipes; and improvement of existing
alleys, footpaths and local roads.

     (b)  Public Facilities: Construction and
rehabilitation of public markets, slaughterhouses and
motorpools.

     (c)  Equipment: Provision of road and drainage
maintenance equipment, utility vehicles, and computers.

3.   Consultancies

     Utilization of consultants’ services for: (a) Sub-
project preparation including feasibility studies; and
(b) detailed design and engineering, and/or construction
supervision.

Part B:   Real Property Tax Administration

     Preparation of tax maps and improvement of real
property tax records, records management, data
computerization and tax collections in the Local
Government Units.

Part C:   Technical Assistance

     Provision of technical assistance to:

     (a)  Department of Public Works and Highways of the
Borrower for  (i) preparation, appraisal and monitoring
of development projects in Local Government Units; and
(ii) carrying out of a study of solid waste collection,
disposal and management by Local Government Units of
Bulacan, Rizal, Laguna and Cavite Provinces.

     (b)  Department of Finance of the Borrower for
developing a management system for the Municipal

Development Fund.

                        *  *  *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

August 1, 1995                          730,000
February 1, 1996                             755,000
August 1, 1996                          785,000
February 1, 1997                             815,000
August 1, 1997                          850,000
February 1, 1998                             880,000
August 1, 1998                          915,000
February 1, 1999                             950,000
August 1, 1999                          990,000
February 1, 2000                            1,025,000
August 1, 2000                         1,065,000
February 1, 2001                            1,105,000
August 1, 2001                         1,150,000
February 1, 2002                            1,195,000
August 1, 2002                         1,240,000
February 1, 2003                            1,290,000
August 1, 2003                         1,340,000
February 1, 2004                            1,390,000
August 1, 2004                         1,445,000
February 1, 2005                            1,500,000
August 1, 2005                         1,560,000
February 1, 2006                            1,620,000
August 1, 2006                         1,680,000
February 1, 2007                            1,745,000
August 1, 2007                         1,815,000
February 1, 2008                            1,885,000
August 1, 2008                         1,955,000
February 1, 2009                            2,030,000
August 2, 2009                         2,110,000
February 1, 2010                            2,185,000

______________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but                       0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but                       0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for maintenance
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Republic of the Philippines may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   International and local shopping:

     Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$6,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

2.   Local competitive bidding:

     Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

(a)  With respect to each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on accounts of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall, as may be required, employ
or cause the Local Government Units to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

               Implementation; Terms and
                Conditions of Sub-loans

A.   Implementation

1.   The Borrower shall maintain the Project Steering
Committee and cause it to provide overall policy guidance
and coordination among the various agencies responsible
for or involved in the Project.

2.   The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management
Office with powers, functions, resources and staffing
satisfactory to the Bank.

3.   The Borrower shall maintain the Municipal
Development Fund with powers and functions satisfactory
to the Bank.

4.   The Borrower shall carry out Parts A(l), B and C of
the Project through its Department of Finance and
Department of Public Works and Highways, and Part A(2)

and (3) of the Project through the Local Government Units
selected by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank.

5.   The Borrower shall appropriate the proceeds of the
Loan in the budgets of its Department of Finance and
Department of Public Works and Highways for carrying out
Parts A and B of the Project.

6.   Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the
Department of Finance through certain cities and
municipalities selected by the Borrower in consultation
with the Bank. The Borrower shall only disburse up to
eighty per cent (80%) of the amount expended by the
selected cities and municipalities on procurement of
goods and services under Part B of the Project.

B.   Sub-projects and Sub-loans

1.   The Borrower shall cause the Project Management
Office to select Sub-projects on the basis of the
socio-economic merits and financial and technical
viability of each such sub-project, and shall cause the
Project Management Office to appraise each Sub project so
selected in accordance with appraisal criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   The Borrower shall, prior to the award of a Sub-loan
or Sub project, submit or cause the Project Management
Office to submit to the Bank for review and acceptance,
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with the following:

     (a)  in case of a Sub-loan for Sub-project
preparation:

          such information as the Bank may reasonably
          request;

     (b)  in case of a Sub-loan, other than a Sub-loan
          for Sub-project preparation, and a Sub-
          project:

          (i)  an appraisal of the Sub-project including
               an implementation plan and a description
               of the expenditures to be financed out of
               the proceeds of the Loan;

          (ii) copies of the Sub-project and Sub-loan
               agreements; and

          (iii)     such other information as the Bank
                    may reasonably request.

3.   The Borrower shall enter into Sub-project agreements
with Local Government Units for carrying out Part A(2)
and (3) of the Project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.

4.   The Borrower shall, to enable the Local Government
Units to carry out the Sub-projects, on-lend the proceeds
of the Loan allocated in Category (1) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement through Sub-loans to Local Government
Units on the terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank including the main terms and conditions set out
hereinbelow. The Sub-loans shall be on-lent to the Local
Government Units by the Department of Finance of the
Borrower through the Municipal Development Fund.

5.   The Borrower shall not, without the concurrence of
the Bank, make any amendment(s) to the Sub-project and/or
Sub-loan agreement(s) relating to, in the case of Sub-
loans, any of the terms and conditions of Sub-loans

outlined hereinbelow or, in the case of Sub-projects, any
terms and conditions that might materially affect the
Sub-project.

C.   Main Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

     1.   Main Terms

     Maximum Sub-loan amount  :    90 % of local
                                   component of total
                                   Sub-project cost

     Repayment period         :    up to 20 years
                                   including up to 5
                                   years of grace with
                                   equal payments of
                                   interest and
                                   principal

     Interest rate       :    variable (initially set
                              at 11% per annum)
                              inclusive of all charges
                              and fees

     Review of terms and :    annually by the Borrower
and
     conditions of            the Bank starting May 1,
1990
     Sub-loans

     Foreign exchange         :    to be borne by the
Borrower
     risk

     Repayment of Sub-loan principal and payments of Sub-
loan interest will be deposited by the Local Government
Unit in the Municipal Development Fund to provide
financial assistance to municipalities and cities for
development projects.

     2.   Main Conditions

          Procurement: Procurement of goods, services and
civil works for the Sub-projects and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 6

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods,
works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures. All such deposits
               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall
               have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Local allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the

extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.