World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3147 PAK

                    Loan Agreement

  (Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project)

                        between

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                          and

   WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN

                Dated February 2, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3147 PAK

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1990 between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF
PAKISTAN (the Borrower).

    WHEREAS (A) Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

    (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and

    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

    (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

    (b)  "WAPDA Act" means the Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority Act, 1958, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;

    (c)  "FY" means the fiscal year, beginning July 1 and
ending June 30, of the Borrower;

    (d)  "Core Investment Program" means the Borrower’s
program of high priority projects, described in a letter
dated June 4, 1989, from the Guarantor to the Bank,
referred to in Recital (B) to the Loan Agreement dated
December 8, 1989, Loan Number 3107 PAK (Second Energy
Sector Loan), between the Bank and the Guarantor,
intended to minimize energy shortfalls; and

    (e)  "Power Wing" means the division of the  Borrower
responsible for the construction and operation of power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities
throughout the territory of the Guarantor, with the
exception of the Karachi area.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of one hundred sixty two million dollars
($162,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or,  if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a commercial bank in Pakistan acceptable to the Bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

    (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

    (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) Semester means the first six months
               or the second six months of a
               calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated applicable
     during such Interest Period.

          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of

the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c)  (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each
year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, industrial and public utility practices, and
in accordance with health, safety and environmental
standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

       Management and Operations of the Borrower

     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial,  engineering,
commercial and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

     Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.

     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.

     Section 4.04. Except in the ordinary course of its
business the Borrower shall not, without the prior
consent of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer, distribute or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which
shall be required for the efficient operation of its
Power Wing.

                       ARTICLE V

                  Financial Covenants

Section 5.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) and the  records and accounts
               for the Special Account for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year: (A)
               certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records,
               accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank representatives to
               examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and
               accounts are included in the annual
               audit referred to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that the report
               of such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of
               expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the
               procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can
               be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.

     Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 1989,

funds from internal sources related to electricity
operations equivalent to not less than 40% of the annual
average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred,
or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year,  the
previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.

     (b)  Before April 15 in each of its fiscal years,
the Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon
its completion.

     (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower
would not meet  the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of
the structure and levels of its electricity tariff) in
order to meet such requirements.

     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds from internal sources
               related to electricity operations" shall
               mean the difference between:

          (A)  the sum of gross revenues from all
               sources related to electricity
               operations, consumer deposits, cash
               contributions from consumers in aid of
               construction, and net non-operating
               income and any reduction in working
               capital other than cash; and

          (B)  the sum of all expenses related to
               electricity operations of operation,
               maintenance and administration (excluding
               depreciation and other non-cash operating
               charges), interest and other charges on
               debt (including interest and other
               charges on debt charged to construction
               irrespective or whether they constitute
               cash or non-cash expenses), repayment of
               loans  (including sinking fund payments,
               if any), all taxes or payments in lieu of
               taxes, all cash dividends and other cash
               distribution of surplus,  increase in
               working capital other than cash and any
               other cash outflows other than capital
               expenditures for electricity operations.

          (ii) The term "net non-operating income" means
               the difference between:

               (1)  revenues from all sources other than
                    those related to operations; and

               (2)  expenses, including taxes and
                    payments in lieu of taxes, incurred
                    in the generation of revenues in (1)
                    above.

         (iii)  The term "capital expenditures"
                shall include all investments
                related to the Borrower’s
                electricity operations. Interest and
                other charges charged to
                construction shall be excluded.

          (iv) The term "working capital other than
               cash" means the difference between
               current assets excluding cash and current

liabilities at the end of each fiscal
               year.

          (v)  The term "current assets excluding cash"
               means all assets other than cash which
               could in the ordinary course of business
               be converted into cash within twelve
               months, including accounts  receivable,
               marketable securities, inventories and
               prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal
               year.

          (vi) The term "current liabilities" means all
               liabilities which will become due and
               payable or could under circumstances then
               existing be called for payment within
               twelve months,including accounts payable,
               customer advances, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments in lieu
               of taxes, and dividends.

     Section 5.03.  (a) Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net
revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5
times the estimated debt service requirements of the
Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower,
including the debt to be incurred.

     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of
               the Borrower maturing by its terms more
               than one year after the date on which it
               is originally incurred.

          (ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:  (A)
               under a loan contract or agreement or
               other instrument providing for such debt
               or for the modification of its terms of
               payment on the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
               guarantee agreement, on the date the
               agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into.

         (iii) The term "net revenues" means the
               difference between:

               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources
                    related to operations and net
                    non-operating income; and

               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to
                    operations including administration,
                    adequate maintenance, taxes and
                    payments in lieu of taxes, but
                    excluding provision for
                    depreciation, other non-cash
                    operating charges and interest and
                    other charges on debt.

           (iv)     The term "net non-operating income"
                    means the difference between:

               (A)  revenues from all sources other than
                    those related to operations; and

               (B)  expenses, including taxes and

payments in lieu of taxes, incurred
                    in the generation of revenues in (A)
                    above.

               (v)  the term "debt service requirements"
                    means  the aggregate amount of
                    repayments (including sinking fund
                    payments, if any) of, and interest
                    and other charges on, debt.

               (vi) Whenever for the purposes of this
                    Section it shall be necessary to
                    value, in terms of the currency of
                    the Guarantor, debt payable in
                    another currency, such valuation
                    shall be made on the basis of the
                    prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                    at which such other currency is, at
                    the time of such valuation,
                    obtainable for the purposes of
                    servicing such debt, or, in the
                    absence of such rates on the basis
                    of a rate of exchange acceptable to
                    the Bank.

              (vii) The term "reasonable forecast"
                    means a forecast prepared by
                    the Borrower not earlier than
                    twelve months prior to the
                    incurrence of the debt in
                    question, which both the Bank
                    and the Borrower accept as
                    reasonable and as to which the
                    Bank has notified the Borrower
                    of its acceptability, provided
                    that no event has occurred
                    since such notification which
                    has, or may reasonably be
                    expected in the future to have,
                    a material adverse effect on
                    the financial condition or
                    future operating results of the
                    Borrower.

                      ARTICLE VI

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the WAPDA Act shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such
a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Borrower to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in this Agreement.

     Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VII

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:

(a)  the Borrower shall have issued bidding
documents in accordance with the provisions of Part A of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the supply of not less
than 25% of power transmission towers and earthing
materials for transmission lines to be installed under
Part A of the Project;

     (b)  the consultants to be appointed under Section
II (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
appointed pursuant to the provisions thereof; and

     (c)  the PC-l documents for the Project have been
approved by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council of the Guarantor.

     Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                     ARTICLE VIII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD              440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.       248423 (RCA) or
                                       64145 (WUI)

     For the Borrower:

     Water and Power Development Authority
       of Pakistan
     WAPDA House
     Lahore, Pakistan

     Cable address:                     Telex:

          WAPDA                            44869
          Lahore                           WAPDA PK

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                     By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Kopp
                                 Acting Regional Vice President

Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                     WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                       OF PAKISTAN

                     By /s/ Mueen Afzal
                                        Authorized Representative

                             SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                         Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Civil works            20,000,000         80%
     and line
     erection

(2)  Materials and         121,400,000         100% of foreign
     equipment                                 expenditures and
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures (ex-
                                               factory cost)

(3)  Consultants             2,300,000         100% of foreign
     services                                  expenditures

(4)  Training                2,300,000         100% of foreign
                                               expenditures

(5)  Unallocated            16,000,000
                           ___________

          TOTAL            162,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor; and

    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the  currency of the Guarantor or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and (b) payments made or to be made for
expenditures under Category (1) for materials and
equipment under Part A (1) of the Project, unless and
until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence from
the Borrower that all necessary arrangements to secure
preliminary financial commitments have been completed,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the construction of the Hab

Power Complex referred to in Part A (1) of the Project.

                           SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide for
the Borrower’s implementation of its Core Investment
Program for power transmission for FY 1989  through FY
1993; (b) ensure timely completion of the power
transmission linkages between the Hab Power Complex and
the national 500 kV (kilovolt) electric power network;
(c)  extend and reinforce the Borrower’s 500 kV power
transmission network to ensure adequate and effective
evacuation of power from the Borrower’s main thermal
power generation centers at Guddu and Multan to major
load centers located in the middle and northern portions
of the territory of the Guarantor; and (d) strengthen the
Borrower’s capabilities to implement, operate and
maintain an efficient and economic power transmission
system.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Bank and the
Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Infrastructure Development

(1)  Installation of two single circuit 500 kV
transmission lines of approximately 200 km (kilometer)
each in length, directly connecting the Hab Power Complex
and Jamshoro.

(2)  Installation of a single circuit 500 kV transmission
line of approximately 312 km in length between Guddu and
Multan.

(3)  Installation of a single circuit 500 kV transmission
line of approximately 300 km in length between Multan and
Lahore via Gatti.

(4)  Extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV
substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan, Guddu and Jamshoro
with associated facilities, including reactive
compensation, telecommunications and control equipment.

(5)  Designing and supervising the construction,
operation and maintenance of transmission lines and
substations referred to in paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and
(4).
Part B:   Training

(1)  Carrying out of a program of training for the
Borrower’s  operations personnel in design, maintenance
of the Borrower power transmission network.
                      * * * * *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due                        Payment of Principal
                                      (expressed in dollars)

May 1, 1995                                  2,950,000
November 1, 1995                             3,065,000

May 1, 1996                                  3,185,000
November 1, 1996                             3,310,000
May 1, 1997                                  3,435,000
November 1, 1997                             3,570,000
May 1, 1998                                  3,705,000
November 1, 1998                             3,850,000
May 1, 1999                                  4,000,000
November 1, 1999                             4,155,000
May 1, 2000                                  4,325,000
November 1, 2000                             4,480,000
May 1, 2001                                  4,655,000
November 1, 2001                             4,835,000
May 1, 2002                                  5,025,000
November 1, 2002                             5,215,000
May 1, 2003                                  5,420,000
November 1, 2003                             5,630,000
May 1, 2004                                  5,845,000
November 1, 2004                             6,075,000
May 1, 2005                                  6,310,000
November 1, 2005                             6,550,000
May 1, 2006                                  6,805,000
November 1, 2006                             7,070,000
May 1, 2007                                  7,345,000
November 1, 2007                             7,625,000
Nay 1, 2008                                  7,920,000
November 1, 2008                             8,230,000
May 1, 2009                                  8,545,000
November 1, 2009                             8,880,000

_________________________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Section
     3.04 and 4.03.

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                                   The interest rate (ex-
                                   pressed as a percentage
                                   per annum)applicable to
                                   the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                         0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                         0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years                               0.55
     but not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                    0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

     More than sixteen years but not              0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before                   1.00

maturity

                          SCHEDULE 4

             Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors

     In the procurement of works in accordance with
procedures described in Part A hereof, a margin of
preference to domestic contractors may be granted in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures

     Standardized items of equipment, material and tools,
or groups of such items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of
potential suppliers broad enough to assure competitive
prices, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
contracts:

Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards
and final

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall

apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies  of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank to:

     (a)  assist the Borrower to install, operate and
maintain its 500 kV power transmission system;

     (b)  assist the Borrower in the design and
construction of power transmission lines in areas having
high levels of atmospheric moisture, salt and dust;

     (c)  design, engineer and supervise construction of
new transmission lines and substations under Part A of
the Project;

     (d)  train the Borrower’s operations personnel in
modern methods of power transmission system planning,
operation and maintenance.

     The consultants referred to above shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocations means an
amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments

out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments  in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the

eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.