World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3126 UNI

                          Loan Agreement

                       (Tree Crops Project)

                              between

                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated October 12, 1990

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3126 UNI

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1990, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

    (B)  Part A (1) of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower through State Tree Crop Units and State Agricultural
Project Executing Agencies with the assistance of the Borrower and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
State Tree Crop Units and the State Project Executing Agencies
portions of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

    (C)  Part A (2) and (3) of the Project will be carried out by
the following Participating Companies, namely, Adapalm (Nigeria)
Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of the Borrower and
operating in Imo State of Nigeria (Imo State)  and Akwa Palm
Industries Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of the
Borrower and operating in Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria (Akwa Ibom

State)  with the Borrower’s assistance and,  as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Imo State and Akwa
Ibom State for relending to the Participating Companies portions of
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

    (D)  Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower
through the Participating Banks with the assistance of the Borrower
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Participating Banks portions of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and

    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set forth  in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreements  of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Participating Companies and the State Agreements of even date
herewith between the Bank, Akwa Ibom State and Imo State;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Local and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

    Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several  terms  defined  in the General  Conditions have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

    (a)  "Project Agreements" means the agreements between the Bank
and the Participating Companies of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreements

    (b)  "State Agreements" means the agreements between Bank, Imo
State and Akwa Ibom State of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the State Agreements;

    (c)  "State Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the Imo and
Akwa-Ibom State Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower, Imo State and Akwa Ibom State, respectively,
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements  supplemental  to  the  State  Subsidiary Loan
Agreements;

    (d)  "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to
be entered into between the Imo State, Akwa Ibom State and the
Participating Companies pursuant to Section 2.02 of the State
Agreements, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

    (e)  "Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Participating Banks
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time,  and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

    (f)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the State Subsidiary
Loan Agreements,  the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Bank
Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

    (g)  "Charter"  means the Memorandum and Articles of the
Association of a Participating Bank or a Participating Company;

(h)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Bank to an Eligible Enterprise for a Sub-project out
of the equivalent of the Loan relent to the Participating Bank under
a Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

    (i)  "free-limit Sub-loan" has the meaning assigned to it by
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

    (j)  "Eligible Enterprise" means:  (i)  a private  sector
enterprise, or (ii) a public sector enterprise which is in the
process of being privatized, to which a Participating Bank proposes
to make or has made a Sub-loan;

    (k)  "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Eligible Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan;

    (1)  "Statements of Policy" means the statements of lending
policy satisfactory to the Bank as adopted and approved by the
Board of Directors of the Participating Banks;

    (m)  "Participating States" means Akwa Ibom State, Imo State and
any other eligible States of Nigeria selected in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank to participate in Parts A through
D of the Project;

    (n)  "Project States" means the Participating States and Akwa
Ibom, Anambra, Bendel, Benue, Cross River, Imo, Ogun, Ondo, Oya and
Rivers States of Nigeria which will participate in Part A (1) of the
Project;

    (o)  "Participating Companies" means Adapalm  (Nigeria) Limited
and Akwa Palm Industries Limited;

    (p)  "Participating Banks" means the eligible commercial or
merchant bank selected to participate in the Project in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;

    (q)  "Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited" means Adapalm (Nigeria)
Limited referred to in Recital (C) above and incorporated under the
Borrower’s Companies Act, 1968 (No. 51) on May 9, 1975;

      (r)  "Akwa Palm Industries  Limited"  means  Akwa Palm
Industries  Limited referred to  in Recital (C) above  and
Incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, 1968 (No.  51) on
February 18, 1988;

      (s)  "MEU"  means  the Tree  Crops Agricultural Projects
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Federal Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development;

      (t)"NIFOR" means the Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm

      (u)  "Project" means with respect to: (i) the Project States,
Part A(l)  of the Project;  (ii)  the Participating Companies, Part
A(2) and (3) of the Project; (iii) the Borrower, Parts A(l), B, C
and D of the Project; and (iv) the Participating States, Parts A
through D of the Project;

      (v)  "SDU Project Accounts" means the accounts to be opened by
the Participating Companies for the smallholder development units
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreements;

    (w)  "Naira" means the currency of the Borrower;

    (x)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement

    (y)  "State Tree Crop Units" means the Tree Crop Units of the
Project States; and

    (z)  "State Agricultural Project Executing Agencies" means the

agricultural project management units and other agencies established
and maintained by the Project States for the carrying out of
agricultural development projects in the Project States.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent hundred six million
dollars ($106,000,000).

      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account  in accordance with the provisions of Schedule l to
this Agreement for:  (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall 50
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts A, B and D of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
amounts to be paid) by an Eligible Enterprise under Part C of the
Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested.

    (b)  The Borrower shall,  for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain,  or cause to be opened and maintained,  in dollars
special accounts  in commercial or merchant banks for: (i) MEU and
NIFOR; (ii) Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited; (iii) Akwapalm Industries
Limited; and (iv) the Participating Banks on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreements.

    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time

    Section 2.15.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate for each Interest Period equal to one-half of one
percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the
last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.

    (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for such Semester.

    (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

      (i)   "Interest  Period" means  the  six-month period commencing
            on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
            Agreement,including the Interest Period in which this
            Agreement is signed.

      (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
            outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
            30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
            reasonably determined by the Bank.

      (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
            months of a calendar year.

      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December l in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement,  as such Schedule 3 shall be amended
from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:

      (a) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans, and

      (b) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI
of the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower
under Section 2.08 of this Agreement;  provided that any such
amendments to the amortization schedule permitted hereunder shall
not authorize repayments of the principal amount of the Loan beyond
the latest repayment date set forth in such Schedule 3. Such
amendments of said Schedule 3 shall include amendments to the table
of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.

      Section 2.08.  Unless  the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:

      (a) If a Participating Bank shall repay any amount to the
Borrower on account of: (i) a Sub-loan or any part thereof repaid to
the Participating Bank in advance of maturity; or (ii) a Sub loan or
any part thereof sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the participating Bank,  the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.07  (a)  of this Agreement,  the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
thereto for repaid to the Bank.

      (b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to  the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.

      (c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.

    Section  2.09.  (a)  The  Borrower hereby entrusts  the
Participating Banks with responsibility for the preparation of
withdrawal applications relating to Category (7) in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence  to be  furnished to  the Bank in support of such
applications.  Withdrawal applications relating to said Category (7)
shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $200,000
equivalent.

    (b)  The  Borrower hereby entrusts:  (i) each of the
Participating Companies with the opening of a Special Account for
Part A(2) and (3) of the Project; and (ii) each of the Participating
Banks with the opening of a Special Account for Part C of the
Project.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out Parts A(l), B through D of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural, engineering and banking practices.  The
Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided promptly as needed
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
said Parts of the Project.

(b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall, within the
limits of its constitutional powers, cause Akwa Ibom State and
Imo State, the Participating Companies and the Participating Banks
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the State
Agreements,  the Project Agreements and the Bank Subsidiary Loan
Agreements all the obligations of Akwa Ibom State and Imo State, the
Participating Companies and the Participating Banks therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Akwa Ibom State, Imo State, the
Participating Companies and the Participating Banks to perform such
obligations,  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (c) Without any limitation of its obligations under paragraph
(b) of this Section, the Borrower shall provide in its annual budget
amounts  sufficient  to  cover  the  Borrower’s counterpart
contributions to the costs of the Project to be incurred by MEU and
NIFOR. The Borrower and the Bank estimate said counterpart
contributions to amount in 1989 prices to $1,400,000 equivalent over
the Project period.

    (d)  The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan:

      (i)   relend to the Participating States, for relending to the
            Participating Companies, the proceeds of the Loan
            allocated to the Participating Companies in Schedule l
            to this Agreement under subsidiary loan agreements (the
            State Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into
            between the Borrower and the Participating States under
            terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
            the  Bank including provisions requiring:  (A) repayment
            by the Participating States of principal in 22 years
            (including 7 years of grace);  (B) annual interest to be
            paid by the Participating States at the prevailing
            variable rate applicable to Loans made by  the  Bank;
            and  (C)  the  assumption by  the Participating States
            of any foreign exchange risk relating to the Smallholder
            Development Units costs financed by the  Participating
            Companies  from proceeds of the Loan relent to them;

      (ii)  relend to the Participating Banks the proceeds of the
            Loan allocated to Category (7) in Schedule l to this
            Agreement under subsidiary loan agreements (the Bank
            Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into between
            the Borrower and the Participating Banks under terms and
            conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
            including provisions requiring:  (A)  each Participating
            Bank to repay principal  in accordance with an
            amortization schedule which shall be amended from time
            to time to the extent required to conform in relevant
            part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
            schedules applicable to Sub-loans made by the
            Participating Bank, provided that such repayment period
            shall not exceed 12 years nor shall the grace period for
            any Sub-loan exceed 3 years; (B) each Participating Bank
            to pay annual interest at (1)  the rediscount rate of
            the Central Bank of Nigeria for proceeds of the Loan
            relent to the Participating Bank in Naira; and (2) the
            prevailing variable rate applicable to loans made by the
            Bank plus 1.25 percentage points for any such proceeds
            relent to the Participating Bank in dollars or other
            foreign currency; (C) each Participating Bank to notify
            the Borrower promptly and repay to the Borrower on the
            next following interest payment date  specified  in the
            Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement any amount of a Sub-loan
            or any part thereof which:  (i)  has  been repaid  to
            the Participating Bank by an Eligible Enterprise in
            advance  of maturity;  or  (ii)  has been sold,
            transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value

by the Participating Bank;  (D) the Borrower to apply
            any amount so repaid by the Participating Bank to the
            maturity or maturities of the proceeds of the Loan made
            available to the Participating Bank in amounts
            corresponding to the maturity or maturities of the
            Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (E) all Eligible
            Enterprises to which Participating Banks make Sub-loans
            in dollars or other foreign currency to assume any
            foreign exchange risk; and

      (iii) make available to MEU, NIFOR, the State Tree Crop Units
            and the States Agricultural Project Executing Agencies
            appropriate portions  of the amounts allocated to the
            Borrower in Schedule l to this Agreement.

      (e)  The Borrower shall refrain from providing budgetary other
funding support for oil palm or rubber plantations managed by
State-owned enterprises (excluding plantations managed by the
Participating Companies)  other than budgetary or other funding
support required for minority interest capitalization or financial
restructuring in connection with the divestiture of any State owned
enterprise to the private sector.

      Section 3.02.  Except as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 6 to this Agreement
and Schedule l to the Project Agreements.

      Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall carry out the actions
described in Schedule 8 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the
Bank, said Schedule being subject to modification from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions  (relating to insurance,  use of
goods and services,  plans and schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (i)
Part A(2)  and (3)  of the Project shall be carried out by the
Participating Companies pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreements; and (ii) Part C of the Project shall be carried out by
the Participating Banks pursuant to the provisions of the Bank
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

    Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

      (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
            sound accounting practices, records and accounts
            (including records and accounts of NIFOR) reflecting
            such expenditures;
      (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills,  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
            expenditures (including records of NIFOR) are retained
            until at least one year after the Bank has received the
            audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
            withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and

      (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
            records.

(b)  The Borrower shall:

      (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
            (a) (i) of this Section (including those of MEU

and NIFOR) and those for the Special Accounts for each
            fiscal year audited,  in accordance with appropriate
            auditing principles  consistently applied, by
            independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

      (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
            case not later than six months after the end of each
            such year the report of such audit by said auditors, of
            such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
            reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by
            said auditors as to whether the statements of
            expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
            with the procedures and internal controls involved in
            their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
            related withdrawals; and

      (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
            said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
            Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

    (a)   Akwa Ibom State, Imo State, the Participating Companies
or the Participating Banks shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations  under  the  State Agreements,  the Project Agreements
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

    (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement,  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Akwa Ibom State, Imo State, the
Participating Companies or the Participating Banks will be able to
perform their obligations under the State Agreements, the Project
Agreements or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

    (c)  A Charter or any of the Statements of Policy shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the financial condition of any of
the Participating Companies or the Participating Banks or the
ability of any of the Participating Companies or the Participating
Banks to perform its obligations under the Project Agreements or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

    (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of any of the Participating Companies or the Participating Banks or
for the suspension of the operations of any of the Participating
Companies or the Participating Banks.

    Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

    (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

    (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

(a)  the State Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower, Akwa Ibom State and Imo State;

    (b)  Management contracts satisfactory to the Bank covering
the Project period have been executed on behalf of Adapalm (Nigeria)
Limited, Akwa Palm Industries Limited and private estate management
organizations acceptable to the Bank; and

    (c)  Akwa Ibom State and Imo State have paid into the SDU
Project Accounts the initial amounts required under Section 2.05 of
the State Agreements.

    Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

    (a) that the State Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by Akwa Ibom State and Imo State, and are legally binding
upon Akwa Ibom State and Imo State in accordance with their terms;

    (b)  that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Participating Companies, and are legally binding
upon the Participating Companies in accordance with their terms.

    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:

      The Honorable Minister
      Federal Ministry of Finance
         and Economic Development P.M.B.
      12591 Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
      Lagos, Nigeria

      Cable address:

            FEDMINFIN                     Telex:
            Lagos                         21248 (ITT)

For the Bank:

     International Bank for
     Reconstruction and
     Development
     1818 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     United States of America

Cable address:                            Telex:

      INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                          248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to

be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America,  as of the day and year first above
written.

                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  By /s/ Hauzat Ahmadu
                              Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

      1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts  of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Civil Works:

    (a)  Adapalm               2,700,000
         (Nigeria)
         Limited                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
    (b)  Akwa Palm             1,600,000        90% of local
         Industries                             expenditures
         Limited

    (c)  The Borrower          1,700,000

(2) Vehicles, equip-
    ment, machinery and
    spare parts
    (excluding palm
    oil mill equipment):

    (a)  Adapalm               5,000,000
         (Nigeria)
         Limited                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
    (b)  Akwa Palm             3,000,000        85% of local
         Industries                             expenditures
         Limited

    (c)  The Borrower            200,000

(3) Oil Palm Plant-
    ing and Maintenance:

    (a)  Adapalm               4,000,000        100% of foreign
         (Nigeria)                              expenditures
         Limited                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
    (b)  Akwa Palm             2,800,000

Industries
         Limited

    (c)  The Borrower            700,000

(4) Palm Oil Mill
    Equipment:

    (a)  Adapalm               7,000,000
         (Nigeria)
         Limited                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
    (b)  Akwa Palm             7,000,000        85% of local
         Industries                             expenditures
         Limited

(5) Consultants’
    Services and
    Training:

    (a)  Adapalm               6,500,000
         (Nigeria)
         Limited

    (b)  Akwa Palm             2,600,000        100%
         Industries
         Limited

    (c)  The Borrower            700,000

(6) Operating Costs:

    (a)  Adapalm               1,800,000
         (Nigeria)
          Limited

    (b)  Akwa Palm             1,000,000        50%
         Industries
         Limited

    (c)  The Borrower            300,000

(7) Sub-loans                 50,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures up to
                                                65% of the total
                                                cost of a Sub-
                                                project

(8)  Unallocated

    (a)  Adapalm               4,300,000
         (Nigeria)
         Limited

    (b)  Akwa Palm             2,600,000
         Industries
         Limited

    (c)  The Borrower            500,000

         TOTAL               106,000,000

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;

    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in eke

currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

    (c)  the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures excluding salaries but including the costs described in
the Annex to this Schedule.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:

    (a)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless:  (i) the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  (ii) the
Participating Bank making the Sub-loan has entered into a Bank
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) the Bank is satisfied that the
Participating Bank’s lending department making the Sub-loan has the
expertise necessary in the oil palm and rubber lending sectorj

    (b)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made in
respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May l, 1988; and

    (c)  in respect of payments made by a Participating Company
unless the Participating Company has:  (i) entered into a Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;  (ii)  established the  Selection
Committee of the Smallholder Development Unit referred to in Part A
(2) of the Project;  (iii) furnished to the Bank a model agreement
satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of services and inputs to
farmers participating in the monocrop oil palm small holders program
under Part A (2) of the Project; and (iv) entered into  an agreement
satisfactory to  the Bank with a Participating State for management
by the Smallholder Development Unit of the services and input supply
program required under Part A (2) of the Project.

                        ANNEX to SCHEDULE 1

                  Operating Costs Referred to in
                   Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1

l.   Staff travelling expenses and overnight allowances.

2.  Office running expenses, cost of stationery,  printing and
advertising related to the Project.

3.  Cost of operating vehicles, plant and equipment required for
the Project.

4.   Maintenance of Project buildings and their furnishings.

5.   Such other Project related costs as the Borrower and the Bank
may from time to time determine.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (i) improving production and
productivity in oil palm cultivation and processing and rubber
processing in the ecologically suitable areas of the southern region
of Nigeria; (ii)  assisting the Borrower’s agricultural policies and
programs including its short- and medium-term foreign exchange,
production, income, employment and nutritional programs; and (iii)
facilitating greater private sector involvement in economic
activities and growth.

    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Planting Program

(1) Mixed Crop  Oil  Palm Smallholders  Program  including: (i)
    establishment by State Tree Crop Units  and State Agricultural
    Project Executing Agencies of small nurseries alongside
    perennial water sources  to supply oil palm seedlings to
    farmers; (ii) provision of extension services by State
    Agricultural  Project  Executing Agencies;  and (iii)  planting
    by farmers  of oil palm seedlings as a permanent crop  in their
    mixed crop holdings and house compounds.

(2) Monocrop  Oil  Palm  Smallholders  Program  including: (i)
    establishment by landowners of small monocrop oil palm
    plantation units in the Ukwa area of Imo State and the Ekor area
    of Akwa Ibom State;  (ii)  selection by the Selection Committee
    of the Smallholder Development Units of Adapalm (Nigeria)
    Limited and Akwapalm Industries Limited of farmers eligible to
    participate in the program; and (iii) provision of extension
    services and inputs such as mechanical clearing, oil palm
    seedlings,  cover crop seeds,  fertilizers and chemicals by the
    said Smallholder Development Units.

(3) Nucleus Estates and Mills Program including: (i) development by
    Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited of 5,000 hectares of oil palm in the
    Ukwa Nucleus Estate,  including offices, staff housing, worker
    housing,  roads, water supply, electricity and other settlement
    infrastructure;  (ii)  construction by Adapalm
    (Nigeria) Limited on the Ukwa Nucleus Estate of a 20 ton per
    hour mill to process oil palm fruits from (A)  the Ukwa Nucleus
    Estate, (B)  farms  serviced by the  Smallholder Development
    Unit of Adapalm (Nigeria) Limited,  and (C) the wild oil palm
    groves;  (iii) planting by Akwapalm Industries Limited of about
    3,000 hectares of oil palms as an extension of its Ekor Estate;
    and (iv) construction by Akwapalm Industries Limited (including
    the provision of settlement and housing infrastructure) of a 20
    ton per hour mill to process oil palm fruits from (A) the Ekor
    Nucleus Estate, (B) farms serviced by the Smallholder
    Development Unit of Akwapalm Industries Limited, and (C) the
    wild oil palm groves.

Part B:   Research

         Program to strengthen the capacity of the Nigerian
    Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR)  to produce good quality
    oil palm seeds including:  (i) purchase by NIFOR of equipment
    for standby electricity generation; (ii) installation of air
    conditioning for NIFOR’s seed storage facilities; (iii)
    construction of buildings, and purchase of equipment for NIFOR’s
    plant breeding and fusarium wilt research program;  and (iv)
    improvement of electricity and water supply systems for NIFOR’s
    research center at Benin.

Part C:   Oil Palm and Rubber Processing Facilities

         Program to establish new oil palm and rubber processing
    units and to rehabilitate existing ones including the making by
    Participating Banks of Sub-loans to: (A) eligible private sector
    enterprises,  and  (B)  eligible  public  sector enterprises,
    acceptable to the Bank, which are in the process of
    privatization for: (i) the construction and rehabilitation of
    palm oil mills and rubber factories processing oil palm fruits
    and raw rubber or for remitting poor quality processed rubber;
    and (ii) the purchase of haulage and manufacturing equipment
    required for the construction or rehabilitation of palm oil
    mills and rubber factories.

Part D:   Training and Studies

(l) Training Program including:  (i)  training of private sector
    palm oil mill managers and supervisors in the management of
    small palm oil mills; and (ii) assisting Participating Banks to

train their personnel in the appraisal and technical evaluation
    of project proposals.

(2) Studies to evaluate:  (i) different mixed crop systems integrated
    with oil palm cultivation; and (ii) the experience of
    various tree crop programs in Nigeria including experience of
    the provision and recovery of development credit under the
    programs.

(3) Monitoring and Evaluation Programs including assisting: (i) the
    Participating States to set up and maintain proper accounts for
    their oil palm seedling nurseries;  and (ii) State-owned
    enterprises engaged in rubber and oil palm cultivation to
    develop privatization or leasing plans that will satisfy
    criteria for obtaining Sub-loans.

                             *   *   *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due                                Payment of Principal
                                                (Expressed in dollars)

June 1, 1997                                    1,955,000
December 1, 1997                                2,030,000
June 1, 1998                                    2,105,000
December 1, 1998                                2,185,000
June 1, 1999                                    2,270,000
December 1, 1999                                2,355,000
June 1, 2000                                    2,445,000
December 1, 2000                                2,540,000
June 1, 2001                                    2,635,000
December l, 2001                                2,735,000
June 1, 2002                                    2,840,000
December 1, 2002                                2,945,000
June 1, 2003                                    3,060,000
December 1, 2003                                3,175,000
June 1, 2004                                    3,295,000
December 1, 2004                                3,420,000
June 1, 2005                                    3,550,000
December 1, 2005                                3,685,000
June 1, 2006                                    3,825,000
December 1, 2006                                3,970,000
June 1, 2007                                    4,120,000
December 1, 2007                                4,275,000
June 1, 2008                                    4,440,000
December 1, 2008                                4,605,000
June 1, 2009                                    4,780,000
December 1, 2009                                4,960,000
June 1, 2010                                    5,150,000
December 1, 2010                                5,345,000
June 1, 2011                                    5,555,000
December l, 2011                                5,755,000

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

    The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section
3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                                        The interest rate
                                        (expressed as a percentage
                                        per annum) applicable  to
                                        the balance outstanding on
                                        the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but                          0.80
    not more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but                          0.90
    not more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
    maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

1.   No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub
project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless:

    (a)  the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph 2 (a) of this
Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or

    (b)  the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request
and information required under paragraph 2  (b) of this Schedule in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan in an amount to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan under Category (7)  in Schedule 1 hereto, the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Bank.

2.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub
loan) to the Bank for approval, a Participating Bank shall furnish
to the Bank an application,  in form satisfactory to the Bank,,
together with: (i) a description of the Eligible Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Sub-project,  including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan;  (ii)  the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

(b)  Each request by a participating Bank for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free limit
Sub-loan shall contain:  (i) a summary description of the Eligible
Enterprise and the Sub-project, including a description of the

expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan;  and (ii)  the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.

(c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30. 1992.

3.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Bank
shall obtain, by written contract with the Eligible Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect  the
interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating Bank,
including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:

    (a)  require the Eligible Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;

    (b)  require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts there for
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;

    (c)  Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and
construction included in the Sub-project,  the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents:

    (d)  require that: (i) the Eligible Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,  against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion,  transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Eligible Enterprise to replace or repair such goods:

    (e)  obtain all  such  information as  the Bank or  the
Participating Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration,  operations and financial
condition of the Eligible Enterprise and to the benefits to be
derived from the Sub-project; and

    (f)  suspend or  terminate the right of the  Eligible
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
the Eligible Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Participating Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 5

              Modifications of the General Conditions

    For the purposes of this Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

    (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

    (2)  The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect
to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount of the
Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03  are
deleted and the  following provisions  are substituted there for:

         "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 2 (c) of
    Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any
    portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications or

requests under paragraph 2 (a) or (b) of the said Schedule; or
    (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the Bank
    may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to submit
    such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
    Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
    portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount
    or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                            SCHEDULE 6

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1.   Goods and works estimated to cost $500,000 or more equivalent
including the following items shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines):

    (a)  all items included under Category (1) in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement relating to construction of palm oil mills;

    (b)  all items included under Category (2) in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement with the exception of motorcycles, water pumps, research
equipment,  office furniture and equipment and spare parts; and

    (c)  all palm oil mill equipment included under Category (4) in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with the exception of replacement
parts.

2.   Bidders for works included in Part A (3) of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

Part B:Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Preference for Domestic Contractors

    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.   (a)  Goods and works estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
$60,000 or more but less than $500,000 equivalent including the
following items may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank:

         (i)                            all building construction
                                        works included under
                                        Category (l) in Schedule
                                        Agreement; and

         (ii)                           all research equipment
                                        included under Category (2)
                                        in Schedule 1 to this
                                        Agreement to be purchased
                                        for NIFOR.

(b)  With respect to Part C of the Project, items estimated to
cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability  of
the  goods  and availability  of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor.

2.   With respect to Parts A, B and D of the Project, goods and
works  estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,  in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.   Nucleus estate and small holder oil palm planting and nursery
operations may be carried out by force account (i.e. by resident
casual or small holder labor) or under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of quotations solicited from experienced local
contractors in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.   To the extent practicable, contracts for building construction
shall be grouped in bid packages of $200,000 or more each.

Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of prequalification:

    With respect to prequalification of bidders as provided in Part
A.2 hereof,  the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix l
to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
contracts:

    (a)  With (i) each contract under Parts A, B and D of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and
(ii) each contract under Part C of the Project estimated to cost
$2,000,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for any such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for any
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other  information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement.

3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with

principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                         Special Accounts

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(l)(c), (2)(c), (3)(c),  (5)(c), (6)(c) and (7) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

         (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

         (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into a Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule equivalent to: (i)
$200,000 each for MEU and NIFOR; and (ii) $1,000,000 each for the
Participating Banks.

2.  Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.       After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

         (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)  (i)  For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower
         shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits  into  the
         Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
         specify.

         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
         Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other
         evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
         for the payment or payments in respect of which
         replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
         request,  the Bank shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,
         withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
         Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
         requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
         and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
         Account  for eligible expenditures.   All such deposits
         shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account  under
         the  respective  eligible Categories,  and in the
         respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
         justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall,  at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3  of this

Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:

    (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories,  less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to  the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

    (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 8

       Actions referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement

1.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause the Participating Banks to
strengthen their agricultural lending departments in the oil palm
and rubber lending sector on the basis of the recommendations of the
project appraisal specialist and the tree crop processing expert
employed under the Project.

         (b)  The Borrower shall cause the Participating Banks: (i)
to maintain separate accounts for Sub-loans; and (ii) to furnish the
Bank with annual reports on the status of each Eligible Enterprise
and such other information as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.

2.   (a)  The Borrower shall cause NIFOR to sell with effect from:
(i)  January 1,  1990  its  oil palm seeds  at full cost; and (ii)
January 1, 1991 its oil palm seedlings at full cost.

(b)  The Borrower shall cause NIFOR to furnish to its Board of
Directors  for the Board’s approval and to the Bank for information
NIFOR’s annual budgets no later than one month before the start of
the financial year.

3.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause MEU to furnish no later than one
month before the start of the financial year MEU’s annual budgets to
the Borrower for the Borrower’s approval and to the Bank for
information.

    (b)  The Borrower shall cause MEU to prepare the Project
completion report required under Section 9.07 (c) of the General
Conditions for submission to the Bank no later than six months after
the Closing Date.

    (c)  The Borrower shall cause MEU to make proceeds of the Loan
required for the establishment of mixed crop smallholder nurseries
under Part A(l) of the Project available to only those State Tree
Crop Units and State Agricultural Project Executing Agencies that
will price their oil palm seedlings at not less than 60% of full
cost in 1989, 75% of full cost in 1990, 85% of full cost in 1991 and
100% of full cost thereafter.

    (d)  The Borrower shall no later than December 31, 11989 employ
and assign to the Project:  (i)  a tree crop processing expert; and
(ii) a project appraisal specialist.