World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3263 PH

                (Earthquake Reconstruction Project)

                              between

                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated November 8, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3263 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, A.5, and B of the Project will be
carried out by the Borrower through its Department of Public Works
and Highways (DPWH), Department of Health (DOH), and National Irri-
gation Administration (NIA), and Part A.2 will be carried out by the
National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation (NHMFC), a corporate
entity organized and existing under the laws of the Philippines, and
the Housing Entity (as herein defined) with the Borrower’s assist-
ance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make avail-
able to NHMFC and the Housing Entity a part of the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      (C)   the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Affected Areas" mean the areas affected by the
earthquake in July 1990 in the following administrative sub-
divisions (and any successor or successors thereto) of the Borrower:
Regions I, II, III and IV, Cordillera Administrative Region, and the
National Capital Region;

      (b)   "Beneficiaries" mean the persons and legal entities who
qualify for assistance under the Project on the basis of criteria
agreed to by the Bank;

      (c)   "Construction Loans" mean the portions of the proceeds
of the Subsidiary Loan onlent to the Housing Entity under the
Construction Loan Agreements;

      (d)   "Construction Loan Agreements" mean the agreements to be
entered into between NHMFC and the Housing Entity pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Construction Loan Agreements;

      (e)   "Housing Entity" means the National Housing Authority,
a corporate entity organized and existing under the laws of the
Philippines, and/or other entity or entities agreed to by the Bank;

      (f)   "Implementing Agencies" mean DOH, DPWH, NIA, NHMFC, and
the Housing Entity, and include any successor or successors thereto,
responsible for carrying out various parts of the Project;

      (g)   "Mortgage Agreements" mean the agreements to be entered
into between the Housing Entity and the Beneficiaries pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Mortgage
Agreements;

      (h)   "Mortgage Loans" mean the housing credits/mortgage loans
extended to the Beneficiaries by the Housing Entity under the
Mortgage Agreements;

      (i)   "PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit established by
DPWH for the purpose of coordinating activities of the PIUs under
the Project;

      (j)   "PIUs" mean the Project Implementation Units established
by the Implementing Agencies for the purpose of carrying out their
respective parts of the Project;

      (k)   "Reconstruction Proposals" or "RPs" mean the recon-
struction proposals prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement;

      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

      (m)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the portion of the proceeds of

the Loan relent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

      (n)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NHMFC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equiva-
lent to the amount of one hundred twenty five million dollars
($125,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of the Philippines on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:

            (i)   shall carry out Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, A.5, and B
                  of the Project through DPWH, DOH, and NIA with
                  due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                  with appropriate administrative, financial, and
                  engineering practices and shall provide, promptly
                  as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                  other resources required for the Project; and

            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                  other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall cause NHMFC and the Housing Entity
                  to perform all their obligations set forth in the
                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Construction
                  Loan Agreements respectively, shall take or cause
                  to be taken all actions, including the provision
                  of funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
                  NHMFC and the Housing Entity to perform such
                  obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
                  taken any action which would prevent or interfere
                  with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purpose of providing
assistance to the Beneficiaries, relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan to NHMFC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NHMFC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-

sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      (d)   The Borrower shall, in making provision for assistance
to the Beneficiaries, cause NHMFC to (i) onlend the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan to the Housing Entity under construction loan
agreements to be entered into between NHMFC and the Housing Entity
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) cause
the Housing Entity to provide housing credit/mortgage loans to the
Beneficiaries under mortgage agreements to be entered into between
the Housing Entity and the Beneficiaries under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.

      (e)   The Borrower shall cause NHMFC, and through NHMFC, the
Housing Entity to (i) exercise their rights under the Construction
Loan Agreements and the Mortgage Agreements respectively in such
manner as to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and not to assign,
substantially amend, abrogate or waive the Construction Loan Agree-
ments or the Mortgage Agreements or any provision thereof without
the prior written consent of the Borrower, and (ii) carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A.2 of the
Project.

      (f)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out and cause the Project
to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the Implementing Agencies
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have and cause to have the records and accounts
                  referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  including those for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year  audited, in accordance with appro-
                  priate auditing principles consistently applied,
                  by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish and cause to be furnished to the Bank as
                  soon as available, but in any case not later than
                  six months after the end of each such year, the
                  reports of such audits by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish and cause to be furnished to the Bank
                  such other information concerning said records
                  and accounts and the audits thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals

from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain and cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain and cause to be retained, until at least
                  one year after the Bank has received the audit
                  reports for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  reports of such audits contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expendi-ture submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been canceled or terminated
without the consent of the Bank or that the parties thereto, in the
opinion of the Bank, have failed or are unable to perform their
respective obligations prescribed therein.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  SECFIN                    27550 CBP-PH
                  Manila                    40268 CB-CONF

For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the city of Manila, Republic of
the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                        By /s/ Romeo L. Bernardo

                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu

                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works

      (a) Roads & bridges       46,000,000      60%

      (b) Irrigation             7,300,000      70%

      (c) Medical
          Facilities             6,400,000      70%

(2)   Equipment,                                100% of foreign
      materials (other                          expenditures,
      than those under                          100% of local

Category 4), and                          expenditures
      vehicles                                  (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

      (a) Roads & bridges        3,200,000

      (b) Irrigation             1,400,000

      (c) Medical
          Facilities             1,100,000

      (d) Housing                  200,000

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent    to be Financed

(3)   (a) Subsidiary
          Loan,

      (b) Construction
          Loans, and

      (c) Mortgage Loans
          under Part A.2
          of the Project         8,300,000      70%

(4)   Construction              25,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials                                 expenditures

(5)   Consultants’
      services and
      training                                  100%

      (a) Roads & bridges        5,600,000

      (b) Irrigation               100,000

      (c) Medical
          Facilities               200,000

      (d) Housing                  200,000

(6)   Unallocated               20,000,000
                               ___________

      TOTAL                    125,000,000
                               ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "construction materials" means lime, cement,
ingots, iron, steel/bars, universals, plates, sheets, tubes, pipes,
fittings, and logs and shall be deemed to include essential com-
modities, agreed to by the Bank, as may be required for the purpose
of reconstruction in the Affected Areas.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no

withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
July 17, 1990, (b) the Subsidiary Loan unless the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly executed by the parties thereto and a legal
opinion, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, in respect
thereof has been submitted to the Bank, (c) a Construction Loan or
Mortgage Loan unless the Construction Loan or Mortgage Loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, and (d) construction materials
unless authorized by the Central Bank of the Philippines.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in earthquake
reconstruction operations in the Affected Areas; and (ii) introduce
measures to help mitigate the impact of future disasters.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:  Reconstruction

1.    Roads and Bridges.

      (a)   Provision of civil works, equipment, materials, and
utility vehicles for reconstruction and repair of roads and bridges
identified in the Reconstruction Proposals and construction of
temporary roads and bridges necessary to maintain traffic flows
during reconstruction; and

      (b)   Undertaking of measures that may be recommended pursuant
to the technical assistance provided under Part B of the Project to
mitigate future damage to the roads and bridges.

2.    Housing.

      (a)   Provision of construction and housing credits/mortgage
loans for the benefit of Beneficiaries, and undertaking of recon-
struction projects for in situ reconstruction and repair of resi-
dential accommodations as well as resettlement projects required on
account of destruction or damage caused by the earthquake in the
Affected Areas; and

      (b)   Provision of equipment, materials, and utility vehicles
for the purpose of carrying out reconstruction and resettlement
projects.

3.    Medical Facilities.

      (a)   Provision of civil works for emergency repairs of public
hospitals and construction of temporary  public health care facili-
ties, and permanent reconstruction and repair of public hospitals

and other public health care facilities identified in the Recon-
struction Proposals;

      (b)   Provision of medical equipment to replace that damaged
or destroyed on account of the earthquake; and

      (c)   Undertaking of measures that may be recommended pursuant
to the technical assistance provided under Part B of the Project to
mitigate future damage to the medical facilities.

4.    Irrigation.

      (a)   Provision of civil works for the emergency repairs and

permanent reconstruction and restoration of irrigation systems and
structures including related dams in and around the Affected Areas
identified in the Reconstruction Proposals;

      (b)   Provision of portable centrifugal pumps and dredging
equipment necessary to assist in removing additional siltation on
account of the earthquake, and seismic equipment to monitor the
safety of dams; and

      (c)   Undertaking of measures that may be recommended pursuant
to the technical assistance provided under Part B of the Project to
mitigate future damage to the irrigation works.

5.    Construction Materials.

      Provision of essential construction materials required for the
purpose of reconstruction in the Affected Areas.

Part B:  Mitigation and Technical Assistance

      Provision of technical assistance for project implementation
and development of mitigation measures including:

      (a)   Development of Reconstruction Proposals for the Affected
Areas;

      (b)   Revision of building and zoning regulations where
needed;

      (c)   Improvement of the level of technical expertise in
earthquake resistant construction, in both the construction industry
and the public sector;
      (d)   Assistance in the preparation of detailed designs,
contract supervision, and project implementation; and

      (e)   Re-establishment of a network of strong motion equipment
throughout the country.

                   *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

      May 1, 1996                                2,280,000.00
      November 1, 1996                           2,370,000.00
      May 1, 1997                                2,460,000.00
      November 1, 1997                           2,555,000.00
      May 1, 1998                                2,655,000.00
      November 1, 1998                           2,755,000.00
      May 1, 1999                                2,865,000.00
      November 1, 1999                           2,975,000.00
      May 1, 2000                                3,090,000.00
      November 1, 2000                           3,210,000.00
      May 1, 2001                                3,330,000.00
      November 1, 2001                           3,460,000.00
      May 1, 2002                                3,595,000.00
      November 1, 2002                           3,735,000.00
      May 1, 2003                                3,875,000.00
      November 1, 2003                           4,025,000.00
      May 1, 2004                                4,180,000.00
      November 1, 2004                           4,345,000.00
      May 1, 2005                                4,510,000.00
      November 1, 2005                           4,685,000.00
      May 1, 2006                                4,865,000.00
      November 1, 2006                           5,055,000.00
      May 1, 2007                                5,250,000.00

November 1, 2007                           5,450,000.00
      May 1, 2008                                5,660,000.00
      November 1, 2008                           5,880,000.00
      May 1, 2009                                6,105,000.00
      November 1, 2009                           6,345,000.00
      May 1, 2010                                6,590,000.00
      November 1, 2010                           6,845,000.00

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Republic of the
Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraphs (b), (c), and (d)
hereof, items or groups of items for equipment, materials, and vehi-
cles, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.

      (b)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (c) and (d) hereof,
items or groups of items for equipment, materials, and vehicles,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quota-tions
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (c)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (d) hereof, con-
tracts for equipment, materials, and vehicles, estimated to cost up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
      (d)   Contracts for construction materials (as defined in
Schedule 1 hereof), estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000
or less per contract, shall be procured following established
commercial practices satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, items or
groups of items for civil works estimated, to cost the equivalent of
$2,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equi-
valent to $68,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, or direct
contracting in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b)   Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $6,500,000, may be carried out by force account.

3.    Goods and services to be financed under Part A.2 (b) of the
Project shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and, in the case of service, of their quality and
competence of the parties rendering them.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for (i) equipment, mater-
ials, and vehicles, (ii) construction materials, and (iii) civil
works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000, $5,000,000, and
$2,500,000 or more respectively, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be fur-
nished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall

not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                            Schedule 5

                      Implementation Program

      The Borrower shall implement and cause NHMFC and the Housing
Entity to implement the Project in accordance with technical, finan-
cial, and environmental standards and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Without derogating from the generality of the foregoing or
limiting the scope of its obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:

1.    Ensure that necessary arrangements are made for adequate
budgetary allocations and timely flow of funds to the Implementing
Agencies/PIUs for implementing the Project.

2.    Prepare Reconstruction Proposals for the Affected Areas by
March 31, 1991 and thereafter submit the RPs forthwith, for review
and comments, to a Technical Panel established by the Borrower in
consultation with the Bank. The Borrower shall take into account the
recommendations, if any, of the said Technical Panel in the
implementation of the RPs.

3.    Ensure the timely employment of consultants to provide the
requisite technical assistance.

4.    Maintain adequate qualified staff in each of the PIUs and PCU
and provide necessary facilities thereto to ensure qualitative and
timely implementation and supervision of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "Eligible Category" means Category 3 set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
reconstruction and resettlement projects under Part A.2 of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the Eligible Category in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that

the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   Eligible Expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the Eligible Category, and in the equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
                                                                  of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)

provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.