World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3116 UNI

                              Loan Agreement

           (Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)

                                  between

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                                    and

                     NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY

                            Dated June 1, 1990

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3116 UNI

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER
AUTHORITY (the Borrower), a statutory corporation established and operating
under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Guarantor).

      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain through the Guarantor from the
Federal Republic of Germany a credit (the German Credit) in an amount
equivalent to fifteen million four hundred thousand dollars ($15,400,000)
to assist in financing Part A (1) and (2) of the Project on the terms and
conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the German Credit Agreement) to
be entered into between the Guarantor and the Federal Republic of Germany;

      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) a

loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent to nine million one hundred
thousand dollars ($9,100,000) to assist in financing Part A (1) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW;

      (E)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain (the U.K.) through the Overseas Development
Administration of the U.K. a grant (the U.K. Grant) in an amount equivalent
to five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in financing Part B (1) and
(2) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the U.K. Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the U.K. and the
Borrower;

      (F)   the Borrower intends to obtain suppliers’ credits (the Suppliers
Credits) in an aggregate amount equivalent to eight million six hundred
thousand dollars ($8,600,000) to assist in financing Part A (5) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (Suppliers
Credit Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and suppliers;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated April 27, 1987, May 21, 1987 and April 6, 1989 between the
Borrower and the Bank;

      (c)   "NEPA Act" means the National Electric Power Authority Act 1972
(Act No. 24) of the Guarantor, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (d)   "PICT" means the Project Implementation Coordination Team
mentioned in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (e)   "Naira" means the currency of the Guarantor.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of

the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per
annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior
to the commencement of such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.

      (c)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
                  on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
                  30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain a Project Implementation
Coordination Team (PICT) which, under the direct supervision of the
Borrower’s Managing Director, shall be responsible for ensuring effective
planning, coordination and monitoring of the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement

of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                 Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall carry out the actions described in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE V

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
                  for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such

records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all necessary action to earn, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990, an annual return
of not less than the percentage specified below of the average current net
value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation, namely: (i) 6% in 1991;
(ii) 7% in 1992; and (iii) 8% in 1993 and thereafter.

      (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the
                  Borrower’s net operating income for the fiscal year in
                  question by one half of the sum of the current net value
                  of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation at the
                  beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.

            (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operating
                  revenues less total operating expenses.

            (iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from
                  all sources related to operations.

            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses
                  related to operations, including administration, adequate
                  maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a
                  rate of not less than 3.5% per annum of the average
                  current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in
                  operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but
                  excluding interest and other charges on debt.

            (v)   The average current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed
                  assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half of
                  the sum of the gross value of the Borrower’s fixed assets
                  in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
                  fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance
                  with sound and consistently maintained methods of
                  valuation satisfactory to the Bank.

            (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower’s fixed
                  assets in operation" means the gross value of the
                  Borrower’s fixed assets in operation less the amount of
                  accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time in
                  accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods
                  of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) no later than January 31, 1990 take all necessary action
to produce for its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the 1990 annual
investment program of the Borrower for that fiscal year; and (ii) continue

to produce for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 1990 funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than
30% of the annual investment program of the Borrower.

      (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations, consumer deposits and consumer
                        contributions in aid of construction, net non-
                        operating income and any reduction in working
                        capital other than cash; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                        including administration, adequate maintenance and
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                        provision for depreciation and other non-cash
                        operating charges), debt service requirements, all
                        cash dividends and other cash distributions of
                        surplus, increase in working capital other than
                        cash and other cash outflows other than capital
                        expenditures.

            (ii)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        (A) above.

            (iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means the
                  difference between current assets excluding cash and
                  current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.

            (iv)  The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
                  other than cash which could in the ordinary course of
                  business be converted into cash within twelve months,
                  including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                  inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
                  which will become due and payable or could under
                  circumstances then existing be called for payment within
                  twelve months, including accounts payable, customer
                  advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments
                  in lieu of taxes, and dividends.

            (vi)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                  any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.

            (vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures
                  incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest
                  charged to construction, related to operations.

Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year
ending on December 31, 1990, incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net
revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower
including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
                  on which it is originally incurred.

            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                        instrument providing for such debt or for the
                        modification of its terms of payment on the date of
                        such contract, agreement or instrument; and

                  (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                        agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                        entered into.

            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                        operations and net non-operating income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                        including administration, adequate maintenance,
                        taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                        provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                        operating charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.

            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related
                        to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                        (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                  of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
                  of, and interest and other charges on, debt.

            (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
                  by the Borrower not earlier than twelve months prior to
                  the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
                  Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to
                  which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
                  acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
                  such notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
                  on the financial condition or future operating results of
                  the Borrower.

      Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 40 to 60.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
                  on which it is originally incurred.

(ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                        instrument providing for such debt or for the
                        modification of its terms of payment on the date of
                        such contract, agreement or instrument; and

                  (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                        agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                        entered into.

            (iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired
                  paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the
                  Borrower not allocated to cover specific liabilities.

      Section 5.06. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 5.03, 5.04 and
5.05 of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.07. The Borrower shall incorporate in its tariff structure
appropriate provisions for electricity rates to be adjusted to changes in
fuel costs to the Borrower.

                                ARTICLE VI

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

            (i)   a change shall have been made in the NEPA Act or any law
                  of the Guarantor governing the establishment,
                  organization, powers, financial structure and operations
                  of the Borrower so as to materially and adversely affect
                  the operations of the Borrower or the carrying out of the
                  Project; and

            (ii)  subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any loan, credit or grant made to the Borrower
                        for the financing of the Project (including the
                        German Credit, the KfW Loan, the U.K. Grant and the
                        Suppliers Credits) shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan or credit shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and

                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                        Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                        under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

(a)   the event specified in Section 6.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement
shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in Section 6.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has, under a utility assistance programme
arrangement (including terms of reference) satisfactory to the Bank,
employed a competent and experienced power utility to provide technical
assistance in areas of the Borrower’s operations covering technical,
financial, managerial and administrative matters;

      (b)   the Guarantor has converted into equity and/or long-term loans
all of its Naira loans (including short-term loans) to the Borrower
outstanding as of December 31, 1988; and

      (c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the German
Credit, the KfW Loan and the U.K. Grant have been fulfilled, other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                               ARTICLE VIII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            National Electric Power Authority
            Electricity Headquarters
            24/25 Marina
            P.M.B. 1203
            Lagos, Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  NIGER POWER                   21212 NEPANG
                  Lagos

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa

                  NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY

                  By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                                Authorized Representative

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment,                                  100% of foreign
    materials and                               expenditures
    spare parts:

    (a)  Generation           14,000,000
         improvements

    (b)  Transmission          7,500,000
         improvements

    (c)  Distribution         11,500,000
         improvements

    (d)  Metering              3,900,000

    (e)  Data pro-             1,000,000
         cessing

    (f)  Training              1,000,000

(2) Engineering                                 100% of foreign
    and consul-                                 expenditures
    tants’ ser-
    vices including
    manpower services:

    (a)  Generation           10,800,000
         improvements

    (b)  Transmission          4,000,000
         improvements

    (c)  Egbin Plant             300,000
         Gas Conversions

(d)  Project               1,000,000
         Management

    (e)  Operations,           3,800,000
         maintenance
         and training
         (generation)

    (f)  Utility               1,400,000
         assistance
         programme

    (g)  Studies and           1,300,000
         future project
         preparation

(3) Refunding of               1,500,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(4) Unallocated                7,000,000

         TOTAL                70,000,000

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $7,000,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories
(1)(a), (2)(a), (2)(c) and (2)(d) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1988.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower to carry
out needed maintenance and rehabilitation of selected generation,
transmission and distribution facilities; and (ii) to assist the Borrower
in carrying out the institutional reforms needed to transform it into a
commercially viable entity capable of providing its customers with a
reliable and economic supply of electricity.

    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Maintenance and Rehabilitation

(1)       Improvements of generation facilities including: (i)
rehabilitation and capital maintenance of seventeen units (1456 MW) at
Sapele, Afam IV and Delta; (ii) provision of two years supply of running
spare parts and consumables for the sixteen units at Sapele and Afam IV; and
(iii) on-the-job training of personnel assigned to work on the Sapele steam
boilers, the Sapele steam turbogenerators and the Sapele and Afam gas
stations.

(2)       Improvements of transmission facilities including: (i) overhaul
of major 330/132 kV substations; (ii) replacement of approximately 37 old
airblast circuit breakers, fault throwers in eight critical locations and
10-132 kV circuit breakers in critical locations with SF-6 circuit breakers;
(iii) provision of spare parts for the power line carrier party line and
telex communication system; (iv) provision of radio equipment for improving
communications between major substations and service centers; and (v)
completion of selected 132 kV transmission lines and associated sub-stations
in Lagos.

(3)        Improvements of distribution facilities including the addition
of about 370 MVA of distribution system capacity through: (i) the
installation of (A) power transformers (28--33/11 kV with a total capacity
of 170 MVA); (B) distribution transformers (140--33/0.415 kV with a total
capacity of 50 MVA, and 400--11/0.415 kV with a total capacity of 150 MVA);
(C) 33 kV and 11 kV switchgears; and (D) high tension and low tension cables
and joining accessories; and (ii) provision of (A) overhead line materials;
(B) protection, communication and capital equipment components; (C) Raychem
cable joining kits; and (D) rechargeable lamps and district communication
equipment.

(4)       Provision of metering equipment including about 20,600 meters for
services to new customers.

(5)       Provision of vehicles including spare parts.

(6)       Assisting in the conversion of the Egbin plant to gas.

Part B:   Institutional Strengthening of the Borrower

(1)       (a) Strengthening of the Borrower’s operations through a utility
assistance programme to be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance
of a power utility of international standing.

    (b)   Pilot district program for efficiency improvements to be carried
out with the assistance of the said international utility company.

(2)       Improvements of the Borrower’s consumer billing, materials
management and general accounting procedures and the Borrower’s management
information system at headquarters, plants and distribution centers,
including the provision of personal computers and software.

(3)       Improvements of the Borrower’s training facilities including the
provision of training equipment for training centers at Kainji, Afam and
Ijora.

Part C:   Project Management Assistance

    Assistance in project implementation and management including the
provision of engineering services.

Part D:   Studies and Future Project Preparation

(1)       Studies to prepare a least-cost priority investment program for
the Borrower.

(2)       Preparation of feasibility and other studies to develop for the
Borrower future investment projects for external financing.

                                 *   *   *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                        Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*

April 1, 1995                                 1,285,000
October 1, 1995                               1,335,000
April 1, 1996                                 1,385,000
October 1, 1996                               1,440,000
April 1, 1997                                 1,495,000
October 1, 1997                               1,550,000
April 1, 1998                                 1,610,000
October 1, 1998                               1,670,000
April 1, 1999                                 1,735,000
October 1, 1999                               1,800,000
April 1, 2000                                 1,870,000

October 1, 2000                               1,940,000
April 1, 2001                                 2,015,000
October 1, 2001                               2,095,000
April 1, 2002                                 2,175,000
October 1, 2002                               2,255,000
April 1, 2003                                 2,345,000
October 1, 2003                               2,430,000
April 1, 2004                                 2,525,000
October 1, 2004                               2,620,000
April 1, 2005                                 2,720,000
October 1, 2005                               2,825,000
April 1, 2006                                 2,935,000
October 1, 2006                               3,045,000
April 1, 2007                                 3,165,000
October 1, 2007                               3,285,000
April 1, 2008                                 3,410,000
October 1, 2008                               3,540,000
April 1, 2009                                 3,675,000
October 1, 2009                               3,825,000

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04
(b) of the General Conditions:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                  The interest rate (expressed  as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                  balance outstanding on the Loan on the
                                  day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                     0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                     0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                       0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                    0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                    0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                     1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Data processing and training items estimated to cost an amount
equivalent to $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.  Spare parts and components for the rehabilitation and overhaul of gas
turbines, steam turbines and boilers (up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $15,700,000 equivalent), and spare parts for improvements of the
transmission system (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000
equivalent), may, pursuant to paragraph 3.5 (c) and (d) of the Guidelines,
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.

Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
subparagraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix I
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3 of
said Appendix shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii)
of this Agreement.

2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants

    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to

$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment

or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                    Actions referred to in Section 4.04
                             of this Agreement

1.  The Borrower shall, throughout the period commencing October 1, 1989 and
ending December 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank by October 31 each
year for the Bank’s review and comments: (i) the Borrower’s investment
program and financing plan for the five years period immediately following;
and (ii) the Borrower’s financial plans (including projected financial
statements) for the five years period immediately following.

2.  The Borrower shall: (i) no later than June 30, 1990, prepare and furnish
to the Bank for its review and comments (A) a manpower development study,
and (B) a comprehensive maintenance strategy and plans for the Borrower’s
power system; (ii) no later than December 31, 1991, carry out the
recommendations of the said manpower development study, as agreed by the
Bank and the Borrower; and (iii) carry out the said maintenance strategy and
plans in accordance with a schedule prepared taking into account the
comments received from the Bank.

3.  (a)   Without limitation or restriction of any of the Borrower’s
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) no later than
December 31, 1989, have its assets as of 1988 revalued in accordance with
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank no
later than (A) December 31, 1989 its audited accounts and long-form report
for 1988, and (B) June 30, 1990 its audited accounts and long-form report
for 1989; and (iii) thereafter, no later than six months after the end of
each of the Borrower’s fiscal years, furnish to the Bank its audited
accounts and long-form report for each following fiscal year.

    (b)   To enable the current replacement value of the Borrower’s assets
to be fully shown in its audited accounts or in its memorandum for financial
planning, the Borrower shall continue to revalue its assets: (i) at least
every five years on the basis of a methodology using engineering valuation
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) every year on the basis
of a methodology to be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.

4.  The Borrower shall, through PICT, prepare and furnish to its Board of
Directors, the Federal Ministry of Mines, Power and Steel, the Bank and
other co-financiers of the Project, quarterly progress reports on the
Project.

5.  The Borrower shall make copies of all reports and studies financed under
the Project available to the Bank and other cofinanciers of the Project.

6.  (a)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank proposals for
commercializing the Borrower as soon as available.

    (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) discuss with the Bank the proposed
performance contract to be entered into by the Guarantor and the Borrower;
and (ii) giving due consideration to the comments of the Bank, carry out the
said commercialization proposals and said performance contract in a
satisfactory manner.

(c)   The Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall exchange views each
year on the Borrower’s progress in meeting the targets set out in the
performance contract.

7.  (a)   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the
Bank, no later than December 31, 1989, an action program designed to (A)
improve revenue collection, (B) strengthen the Borrower’s Commercial
Department, (C) enforce a strict policy of disconnections and reconnections,
(D) require security deposits in appropriate cases, (E) introduce and
enforce strict penalties for late payments, and (F) develop a management
information system for the Borrower’s commercial activities.

    (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) write off by December 31, 1989, all its
bad and uncollectible debts as of December 31, 1988; and (ii) through
improved bill collection and other measures reduce its provision for
doubtful debt to at least 4% in 1990, 3% in 1991, 2% in 1992 and 1% in 1993.

    (c)    The Borrower shall reduce the average age of its accounts
receivable to at least: (i) 8 months sales by December 31, 1989; (ii) 4
months sales by December 31, 1990; and (iii) 3 months sales by December 31,
1991, and thereafter.

8.  (a)   The Borrower shall: (i) reduce overall system loss to at least (A)
31% by December 31, 1989; (B) 27% by December 31, 1990; (C) 24% by December
31, 1991; (D) 22% by December 31, 1992; and (E) 20% by December 31, 1993;
and (ii) no later than December 31, 1989, prepare and furnish to the Bank
for its review and comments an action program to: (A) improve its metering
and billing systems; and (B) strengthen its transmission and distribution
systems.

    (b)   The Borrower shall make arrangements adequately ensuring that as
from July 1, 1989 electricity bills are promptly paid in full, no later than
60 days after billing, by: (i) the Guarantor and all its agencies; and (ii)
all other customers of the Borrower.