World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3257 HO

                (Second Structural Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                     Dated September 17, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3257 HO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 2, 1990
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution; and

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as hereinafter
provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

                  "’Project’ means the imports and other activities
            that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
            pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
            Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

                  "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
            Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
            purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
            shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
            scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the program referred to in
            the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by
            the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obliga-
            tions under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
            the purposes of the Loan."; and

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BANADESA" means Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola,
the Borrower’s National Agricultural Development Bank;

      (b)   "BANASUPRO" means Suplidora Nacional de Productos
Basicos, the Borrower’s National Supplier of Basic Products;

      (c)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de Honduras, the
Central Bank of the Borrower;

      (d)   "FONDEI" means Fondo de Desarrollo Industrial, the
Industrial Development Fund within the Central Bank;

      (e)   "FOVI" means Fondo de Vivienda, the Housing Fund within
the Central Bank;

      (f)   "HONDUTEL" means Empresa Hondurena de
Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower’s Telecommunications National
Enterprise;

      (g)   "IHMA" means Instituto Hondureno de Mercadeo Agricola,
the Borrower’s National Agricultural Marketing Institute;

      (h)   "L" and "Lempiras" mean lempiras, the currency of the
Borrower;

      (i)   "SANAA" means Servicio Autonomo Nacional de Acueductos
y Alcantarillados, the Borrower’s Water and Sewerage National
Enterprise;

      (j)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);

      (k)   "Small Farmer" means any farmer in Honduras holding a
farm with an area of less than 10 hectares;

(l)   "Superintendency of Banks" means the Borrower’s
Superintendencia de Bancos; and

      (m)   "UPCA" means Unidad de Proyecto de Credito Agropecuario,
the Agricultural Credit Project Unit within the Central Bank.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety million dollars ($90,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding

from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) The President of the Central Bank is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$5,000,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in

any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program.

      Section 5.02. The date of December 17, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Hacienda y
Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Secretario de Estado en el Despacho
                  de Hacienda y Credito Publico
            Tegucigalpa, D.C.
            Honduras

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  HACIENDA                  1308 Hacienda HO
                  Tegucigalpa, Honduras

      With copies to:

            Banco Central de Honduras
            Tegucigalpa, D.C.
            Honduras

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  BANTRAL                   1121-HT BANTRAL
                  Tegucigalpa

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                  By /s/ Ramon Hernandez Alcero
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this

Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      112               -           Alcoholic beverages

      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse

      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)

      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials

      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked

      718           718.7           Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      897           897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                    wares (including set gems)

      971               -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $45,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after   May
15, 1990;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the pro-
curement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank on the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered

into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:

      (a)   after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of $45,000,000, unless
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (ii) that the actions described in
Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken; and

      (b)   after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of $65,000,000, unless
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in
Parts A and B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 4 (a)
or (b) above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

      beginning May 15, 1996
      through November 15, 2010                 3,000,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where

considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and

      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.

3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

                            SCHEDULE 4

          Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4 (a) and (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

Part A

1.    The Borrower’s import tariffs have been revised in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank to the effect that the maximum tariff shall
not exceed thirty-five percent (35%) and the minimum tariff shall
not be lower than four percent (4%) of the dutiable value of the
imported item.

2.    The Borrower’s import restrictions for agricultural products
have been eliminated.

3.    The requirement for import licenses issued by the Central Bank
has been abolished in respect of any imported item.

4.    The temporary export taxes on traditional and non-traditional
goods have been reduced or eliminated, as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Decreto No. 18-90,
of March 8, 1990.

5.    Recommendations for a new export incentive system, including
an implementation action plan therefor, both satisfactory to the
Bank, have been furnished to the Bank.

6.    The Borrower’s consolidated public sector savings have reached
at least 0.5% of the Borrower’s gross domestic product in 1990.

7.    Recommendations for a program to reduce the trade dependence
nature of the Borrower’s tax structure and a time-table, including
an implementation action plan therefor, both satisfactory to the
Bank, have been furnished to the Bank.

8.    The bill of the Borrower’s public sector budgetary law for
1991, providing for an increase in non-financial consolidated
public sector savings equivalent to at least one and seven tenths of
one percent (1.7%) of the Borrower’s gross domestic product, has
been presented to the Borrower’s Congress.

9.    The expenditures targets of L 830,000,000 for the public
sector investment program for 1990 have been met.

10.   Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been achieved in the
carrying out of a program of administrative reforms to strengthen
the capacity of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower to collect
taxes, as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

11.   A public sector investment program for 1991, satisfactory to
the Bank, has been issued by the Borrower.

12.   The savings of SANAA and HONDUTEL have reached at least 0.3%
of the Borrower’s gross domestic product in 1990.

13.   (a)   The Borrower has announced the replacement of the
guarantee price system for corn by a flexible tariff system
satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (b)   The Borrower’s guarantee price system and price controls
for all other agricultural products have been eliminated.

14.   Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made for the
achievement of BANASUPRO and IHMA’s rationalization targets as
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

15.   Financial assistance to BANASUPRO by the Borrower and the
Central Bank has been reduced to a maximum of L4,000,000 for 1991.

16.   (a)   The Borrower’s budget for 1991 has provided (i) the
Borrower’s Ministries of Health and Education with funds at least in
the same proportion in relation to the total budget amount as
provided in the Borrower’s budget for 1990; and (ii) for an amount
in Lempiras, as such currency was valued in December 31, 1989, equal
to at least the amount contained in the Borrower’s budget for 1990
for programs to provide food and employment to the neediest sectors
of the Borrower’s population.

      (b)   A social sector restructuring program, satisfactory to
the Bank, to improve the efficiency and equity of social services in
Honduras has been furnished to the Bank.

      (c)   Parameters, satisfactory to the Bank, have been set to
measure the progress of the carrying out of the programs to provide
food and employment to the neediest sectors of the Borrower’s
population.

17.   The ceilings for interest rates in lending operations in
Honduras have been revised on September 30, 1990 and December 31,
1990, to provide for rate ceilings satisfactory to the Bank on those
dates.

18.   The Central Bank’s rediscount interest rates for agricultural
credits (other than those for Small Farmers) have been adjusted to
the level of the Central Bank’s rediscount interest rates for other
credits.

19.   A program, satisfactory to the Bank, to eliminate directed
credit lines by the Central Bank has been adopted.

20.   Subsidized credit lines granted through the Central Bank and
funded with external resources have been limited to the amount in
Lempiras existing on December 31, 1990.

21.   The administration of rediscount credit lines has been
assigned to the following units in the Central Bank: (a) UPCA for
agricultural credits, except BANADESA’s credits; (b) FOVI for
housing credits; (c) FONDEI for industrial credits; and (d)
Departamento de Credito y Valores for all other credits.

22.   The ratio of equity to total assets and off-balance sheet
items (deducting holdings of the Borrower’s bonds, cash and deposits
in other banks) for the commercial banking system of Honduras has
been at least 5% on December 31, 1990.

23.   A program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the reorganization of

the Borrower’s agricultural financial system, which shall include,
inter alia, a reduction in the Borrower’s financial transfers to
BANADESA in 1991 equal to at least 10% of the level of such
transfers in 1990, has been furnished to the Bank.

Part B

1.    The Borrower’s import tariffs have been revised in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, to the effect that the maximum tariff
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) and the minimum tariff shall
not be lower than five percent (5%) of the dutiable value of the
imported item.

2.    The import surcharges for agricultural products have been
eliminated.

3.    The temporary export taxes on traditional and non-traditional
goods have been reduced or eliminated, as the case may be, in
accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Decreto No. 19-90,
of March 8, 1990.

4.    A new export incentive system, satisfactory to the Bank, has
been put into effect by the Borrower on the basis of the
recommendations referred to in paragraph 5 of Part A of this
Schedule.

5.    A bill of law has been submitted to the Borrower’s Congress to
the effect of revising the Borrower’s tax system, based on the
recommendations referred to in paragraph 7 of Part A of this
Schedule.

6.    The targets for non-financial public sector savings referred
to in paragraph 8 of Part A of this Schedule and for the expendi-
tures under the program referred to in paragraph 11 of Part A of
this Schedule have been reached.

7.    Further progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been achieved
in the carrying out of the program referred to in paragraph 10 of
Part A of this Schedule.

8.    The projected savings of SANAA and HONDUTEL have reached the
equivalent of at least 1% of the Borrower’s projected gross domestic
product in 1991.

9.    The flexible tariff system for corn, referred to in paragraph
13 (a) of Part A of this Schedule, has been put into effect.

10.   Further progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made for
the achievement of BANASUPRO and IHMA’s rationalization targets as
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

11.   (a)   Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made in the
carrying out of the programs to provide food and employment to the
neediest sectors of the Borrower’s population, in accordance with
the parameters referred to in paragraph 16 (c) of Part A of this
Schedule.

      (b)   A financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
social sector restructuring program referred to in paragraph 16 (b)
of Part A of this Schedule has been furnished to the Bank.

12.   Financial assistance to BANASUPRO by the Borrower and the
Central Bank has been reduced to a maximum of L2,000,000 for 1992.

13.   The ceilings for interest rates in lending operations in
Honduras have been revised quarterly, beginning on March 31, 1991,
to provide for rate ceilings satisfactory to the Bank on each
revision date.

14.   The Central Bank’s rediscount interest rates for credits to
Small Farmers have been adjusted to the level of the Central Bank’s
rediscount interest rates for other credits.

15.   Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been achieved in the
implementation of the program referred to in paragraph 19 of Part A
of this Schedule.

16.   Subsidized credit lines granted through the Central Bank and
funded with external resources have been limited to the amount
existing on December 31, 1990.

17.   The ratio referred to in paragraph 22 of Part A of this
Schedule is at least 5.5%.

18.   The commercial banks established in Honduras have reclassified
their portfolio in five categories based on instructions and
supervision from the Central Bank through the Superintendency of
Banks, according to the criteria agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.

19.   The commercial banks referred to in paragraph 18 above have
been instructed by the Central Bank, through the Superintendency of
Banks, to make, and progress satisfactory to the Bank has been made
by such commercial banks in making, provisions for the loans
included in their portfolio reclassification referred to in
paragraph 18 above, as follows:

            Category I: 0%
            Category II: 0%
            Category III: 10%
            Category IV: 25%, 50% or 75%, depending on the security required
                         for the loans
            Category V: 100%