World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3071 EGT

                    Loan Agreement

            (Agricultural Storage Project)

                        between

                ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                   Dated May 8, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3071 EGT

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 1990, between ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
PBDAC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and PBDAC;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to

Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and PBDAC of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;

     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PBDAC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last

Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings; for such Semester.

     (c)  For purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.08. PBDAC is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction

                      ARTICLE IV

             Financial and other Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in
               accordance with sound accounting
               practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) ensure that all records (contracts,
               orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least
               one year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
               was made; and

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to

examine such records.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and
               those for the Special Account for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of
               expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) by September
30, 1990, furnish to the Bank the findings of the study
which is currently being undertaken by PBDAC to develop
options for enhancing private participation in the
distribution of agricultural inputs; and

     (b)  Upon the selection by the Borrower of any such
option, exchange views with the Bank, by December 31,
1990, as to the measures and the time framework for the
implementation of the selected option.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  PBDAC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that PBDAC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (c)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of PBDAC or for the
suspension of its operations.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have

been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PBDAC;

     (b)  PBDAC has appointed the Project Coordinator and
the Project Steering Committee referred to in Part A of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;

     (c)  PBDAC has finalized, in accordance with the
criteria stated in Part B.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement, the selection of not less than 80 of
the sites proposed for the construction of storage
facilities under Part A.1 of the Project; and

     (d)  PBDAC has completed, in accordance with Section
II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the selection
of consultants required to assist PBDAC in the carrying
out of Part A.1 and 2 of the Project.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by PBDAC, and is legally binding
upon PBDAC in accordance with its terms; and

     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PBDAC and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and PBDAC in
accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of International
Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of International Cooperation
          (International Finance Sector)
          8 Adly Street
          Cairo, Egypt

          Cable address:           Telex:

Ministry of International     927-23348
               Cooperation
               Cairo

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423
(RCA),
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

          By /s/ E. A. Shafey
                              Authorized Representative

          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

          By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
                                Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Civil Works     26,800,000       38%

(2)    Machinery,       9,900,000       100% of foreign
   equipment and                        expenditures,
   transportation                       100% of local
   vehicles                             expenditures
                                        (ex-factory cost)
                                        and 80% of local
                                        expenditures for

other items
                                        procured locally

(3)    (a)                       Project100,000)
       engineering              )
       services                 )
                                )
   (b) Other             700,000)   100%
       technical                )
       services and             )
       training                 )

(4)    Unallocated      2,500,000

       TOTAL           40,000,000

2. For the purposes of this Schedule:

   (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

   (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

   The objective of the Project is to assist in
modernizing the handling and storage system for
agricultural inputs, grain and animal feed so as to (a)
reduce physical losses and quality deterioration in the
products handled; (b) improve fertilizer and animal feed
transport efficiency; and (c) reduce product handling and
storage cost.

   The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:  Storage Facilities

1. Construction of covered flat storage space with a
capacity of about 900,000 tons, for agricultural inputs
and products distributed or procured by PBDAC.

2. Repair/rehabilitation of fertilizer and pesticide
warehouses with a total flat storage capacity of about
500,000 tons.

3. Provision of handling and related equipment for the
storage
facilities referred to in (1) and (2) above.

4. Construction and equipping with mobile equipment of
a bulk handling and storage facility for imported corn.

Part B:  Management Assistance; Training

1. Establishment within PBDAC of a system for (a)
planning and management of the transport and distribution
of fertilizers and animal feed, including the provision
of related equipment and materials and the training of

PBDAC’s staff in the operation of such system; and (b)
handling, storage and distribution of imported feed
grains, particularly yellow corn.

2. Training for PBDAC’s and BDACs’ staff and
distributors of agricultural inputs in handling and
storage, marketing management, financial and inventory
control and environmental safety.

                    *      *      *

   The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (Expressed in
dollars)*

February 1, 1995                            735,000
August 1, 1995                              760,000
February 1, 1996                            790,000
August 1, 1996                              820,000
February 1, 1997                            855,000
August 1, 1997                              885,000
February 1, 1998                            920,000
August 1, 1998                              955,000
February 1, 1999                            990,000
August 1, 1999                            1,030,000
February 1, 2000                          1,070,000
August 1, 2000                            1,110,000
February 1, 2001                          1,150,000
August 1, 2001                            1,195,000
February 1, 2002                          1,240,000
August 1, 2002                            1,290,000
February 1, 2003                          1,340,000
August 1, 2003                            1,390,000
February 1, 2004                          1,445,000
August 1, 2004                            1,500,000
February 1, 2005                          1,555,000
August 1, 2005                            1,615,000
February 1, 2006                          1,675,000
August 1, 2006                            1,740,000
February 1, 2007                          1,810,000
August 1, 2007                            1,875,000
February 1, 2008                          1,950,000
August 1, 2008                            2,025,000
February 1, 2009                          2,100,000
August 1, 2009                            2,185,000

*  The figures in this column represent dollar
   equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
   withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and
   4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

   Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

   Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                             The interest rate
                             (expressed as a percentage
                             per annum) applicable to
                             the balance outstanding on

the Loan on the day of
                             prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                     0.15
   before maturity

More than three years but                     0.30
   not more than six years
   before maturity

More than six years but                       0.55
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity

More than 11 years but not                    0.80
   more than 16 years
   before maturity

More than 16 years but not                    0.90
   more than 18 years
   before maturity

More than 18 years before                     1.00
   maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

           Terms and conditions of onlending
          under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement

   The following terms for onlending the proceeds of the
Loan from the Borrower to PBDAC shall be included in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement:

   The Borrower, acting through its Central Bank, shall
maintain the following two accounts for purposes of
repayment of and interest payment on the Subsidiary Loan:

   (a)   The Local Currency Account: to which there
shall be debited the equivalent in Egyptian pounds of
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account to meet
expenditures incurred and paid by PBDAC in Egyptian
pounds. Such equivalent shall be determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account.
Amounts debited to said account shall be repaid by PBDAC
to the Borrower over a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of five years, with interest at the annual
rate determined, from time to time, by the National
Investment Bank of the Borrower to be applicable to
PBDAC; and

   (b)   The Foreign Currency Account: to which there
shall be debited all amounts of foreign currencies (that
is all currencies other than Egyptian pounds) withdrawn
from the Loan Account to meet expenditures incurred and
paid directly by PBDAC in said foreign currencies. Debt
service payments with respect to amounts debited to such
account shall be made by PBDAC to the Borrower (i) over
the same maturity period specified for the Loan pursuant
to Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, (ii) at the same
rates of interest applicable during such maturity period
to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan
Agreement, and (iii) in the Egyptian Pounds equivalent
(determined as of the respective dates of debt service
payments in accordance with the commercial banks’
exchange rates) to the amounts of currency or currencies
in which the Borrower’s debt service obligation, with
respect to such amount, shall be payable to the Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1. For the purposes of this Schedule:

   (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

   (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

   (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

   (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

   (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special
                Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
                the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the
                Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                the Bank the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis
                of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
                the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as
                shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

   (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

   (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible Expenditures.

6. (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

   (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

   (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

   (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.