World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3219 IND

           (Second Jabotabek Urban Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 6, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3219 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) (OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in
an amount of Japanese Yen �6,446,000,000 to assist in financing Part
A.1 (ii), and a portion of Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;

      (C)   the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (hereinafter referred to as the "Ministry") intends to
make available to the Borrower a grant in an amount of Dutch Guilder
7,300,000 (hereinafter referred to as the "Dutch Grant") to assist
in financing a portion of Part F.1 of the Project on the terms and

conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter referred to as the
"Dutch Grant Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Ministry;

      (D)   part of the Project will be carried out by Daerah Khusus
Ibukota Jakarta (DKI Jakarta) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to DKI
Jakarta part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement;

      (E)   part of the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan
Daerah Air Minum Jaya (PDAM Jaya) with the Borrower’s assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
PDAM Jaya part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

      (F)   part of the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan
Daerah Air Minum Tangerang (PDAM Tangerang) with the Borrower’s
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to PDAM Tangerang part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Governing Laws" means Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of
1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home
Affairs, Joint Decree Nos. 3, 4 and 5 of January 23, 1984, of the
Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Public Works,
Letter Ref. No. 3297/1.778.100, dated September 14, 1989, from PDAM
Jaya to Tim Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkotaan (relating to distribu-
tion of profits), Letter Ref. No. 4262/1.778.1. dated October 2,
1989, from DKI Jakarta to BAPPENAS (relating to retention of
profits), Letter Ref. No. 560/1167/PDAM 190, dated April 2, 1990,
from Bupati KDH.TK.II Tangerang to Direktur Bina Program-DGHS
(relating to retention of profits), Letter Ref. No. 3057/1.792.1,
dated July 14, 1989, from DKI Jakarta to DGWRD (relating to res-
ponsibility for operation and maintenance for drainage), and any
other provisions in force at any time governing the organization and
operations of PDAM Jaya or PDAM Tangerang, as any of them may be
amended or supplemented from time to time;

      (b)   "DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DKI Jakarta
pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
such subsidiary loan agreement;

      (c)   "PDAM Jaya Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and PDAM Jaya pursuant
to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
subsidiary loan agreement;

      (d)   "PDAM Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the

agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PDAM Tangerang
pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
such subsidiary loan agreement;

      (e)   "JUPCO" means the Jabotabek Urban Project Coordination
Office, established within the Regional Development Planning Board/
BAPPEDA of DKI Jakarta;

      (f)   "Jabotabek" means the region comprising the Jakarta,
Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi local government administrative areas;
      (g)   "POJ" means Perum Otorita Jatiluhur (the Jatiluhur
Authority) established under Government Regulation No. 20/1979 JO
35/1980;

      (h)   "DKI Jakarta" means Jakarta Special Capital Province;

      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (j)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the DKI Jakarta
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the PDAM Jaya Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the PDAM Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (k)   "BPAL" means Badan Pengelola Air Limbah (Waste Water
Management Body) established within the Directorate General of Human
Settlements of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (l)   "PDAL" means Perusahaan Daerah Air Limbah (Jakarta
Sewerage Enterprise) to be established pursuant to Section 3.04 (a)
of this Agreement;

      (m)   "Distribution Zones" means the geographical areas estab-
lished within DKI Jakarta for clean water distribution;

      (n)   "BAPPEDA" means the DKI Jakarta Regional Development
Planning Board;

      (o)   "DGHS" means the Directorate General of Human Settle-
ments in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (p)   "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (q)   "JSSP" means the Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
Unit in DGHS;

      (r)   "PSJ" means the Proyek Serbaguna Jatiluhur in DGWRD;

      (s)   "PBJR" means the Proyek Banjir Jakarta Raya in DGWRD;
      (t)   "CJC" means the Cisadane Jakarta Cibeet Project Unit in
the Direktorat Bina Program of DGWRD; and

      (u)   "DBP" means Direktorat Bina Program within DGHS.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred ninety million dollars ($190,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and shall carry out, or cause to be carried out under the
overall responsibility and supervision of DGHS: (i) Parts A.1, A.2
and a portion of F.2 (i) of the Project through PDAM Jaya; (ii)
Parts B and a portion of F.2 (i) of the Project through PSJ; (iii)
Parts C and a portion of F.2 (i) of the Project through PDAM
Tangerang; (iv) Parts D and a portion of F.2 (i) of the Project
through JSSP; (v) Parts E and a portion of F.2 (i) of the Project
through PBJR; (vi) Part F.1 of the Project through CJC; (vii) Parts
F.2 (ii), F.2 (iii) and F.2 (iv) of the Project through DBP; (viii)
Part A.3 of the Project through DKI Jakarta; and (ix) Part F.3 of
the Project through JUPCO, all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial prac-
tices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the Loan
relend, or cause to be relent, to (i) DKI Jakarta an amount equi-
valent to $19,000,000 under the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and DKI Jakarta; (ii)
PDAM Jaya an amount equivalent to $92,000,000 under the PDAM Jaya
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and PDAM Jaya; and (iii) PDAM Tangerang an amount equivalent to
$13,000,000 under the PDAM Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PDAM Tangerang, all under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provisions thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out: (a) implementation arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, for carrying out each Part of the Project; and (b) Action
Programs satisfactory to the Bank to strengthen PDAM Jaya, PDAM
Tangerang and POJ.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be established
by April 1, 1991, an enterprise to manage and operate the DKI
Jakarta sewerage system, PDAL.

      (b)   Until such time as PDAL has been established and is
operating, the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) BPAL shall continue
to have the authority to charge tariffs, make connections and retain
revenues for its operational purposes; and (ii) BPAL shall, by
March 31, 1991, and thereafter, financially break even. For purposes
of sub-paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower shall, or
shall cause BPAL/PDAL to review the sewerage tariffs and adjust

them, as required. For purposes of this Section, the term "finan-
cially break even" means recovery of, full operating and maintenance
costs before depreciation.

      (c)   The Borrower shall cause the sewage ponds under the
jurisdiction of BPAL/PDAL to be operated and maintained in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause DKI Jakarta to estab-
lish in JUPCO a Division responsible for the overall coordination of
the Project, headed by a qualified and experienced officer, and
assigned, at all times, with such staffing, resources, facilities
and responsibilities as shall be required to enable JUPCO to
undertake the overall coordination of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank; and

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than (nine) 9 months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account for the Project were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the proce-dures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause:

(a) (i) PDAM Jaya to maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the opera-
tions and financial condition of PDAM Jaya; (ii) PDAM Tangerang to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
PDAM Tangerang; and (iii) BPAL/PDAL to maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of BPAL/PDAL.

      (b)   PDAM Jaya, PDAM Tangerang and BPAL/PDAL each to:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than (nine) 9 months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; pro-vided however, that the audits for
                  the calendar years ending 1989 and 1990 shall be
                  made available not later than (fifteen) 15 months
                  after the end of each such year, and that the
                  audit for calendar year 1991 shall be made
                  available not later than (twelve) 12 months after
                  the end of such year; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
                  sonably request, including a report by JUPCO
                  within three months of the completion of any
                  audit, of the actions taken to carry out the
                  recommendations, if any, by the auditors.

      Section 4.03. By April 1, 1991, and thereafter by January 1 in
each third year, the Borrower shall cause DKI Jakarta together with
PDAM Jaya: (a) to adjust its tariffs, on the basis of realistic
forecasts, after reviewing the adequacy of the tariffs of PDAM Jaya
to meet the requirements set forth in Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of this
Agreement for the next three fiscal years; and (b) to furnish to the
Bank the results of such review upon completion.

      Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) PDAM Jaya shall not incur any debt
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of
PDAM Jaya shows that the projected net revenues of PDAM Jaya for
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be
at least 1.5 times the projected debt service requirement of PDAM
Jaya in such year on all debt of PDAM Jaya including the debt to be
incurred; and (b) PDAM Jaya’s debt shall be no more than 70% of its
total capitalization. For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of PDAM
                  Jaya maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred;

           (ii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or further modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into;

          (iii)   the term "net revenues of PDAM Jaya" means gross

revenues of PDAM Jaya from all sources, adjusted
                  to take account of PDAM Jaya’s tariffs in effect
                  at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
                  they were not in effect during the twelve-month
                  period to which such revenues relate, less all
                  operating expenses of PDAM Jaya, including
                  expenses accountable to administration, main-
                  tenance and taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes),
                  but before provision for depreciation of assets
                  and interest and other charges on debt;

           (iv)   the term "debt service requirement" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt;

            (v)   the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by PDAM Jaya in the fiscal year in which
                  the debt in question is to be incurred, which
                  both the Bank and PDAM Jaya accept as reasonable
                  and as to which the Bank has notified PDAM Jaya
                  of its acceptability, provided that no event has
                  occurred since such notification which has, or
                  may rea-sonably be expected in the future to
                  have, a material adverse effect on the financial
                  condition or future operating results of PDAM
                  Jaya;

           (vi)   the term "total capitalization" means debt plus
                  equity;

          (vii)   the term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpared paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of PDAM Jaya not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities; and

         (viii)   whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of currency
                  of the Borrower, debt payable in another
                  currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the pre-vailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, with absence of such
                  rate on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
for investment purposes the Borrower shall cause: (i) PDAM Jaya to
produce funds from internal sources, for each of its fiscal years
commencing on its fiscal year January 1, 1990, equivalent to not
less than thirty percent (30%) of the annual average of its expen-
ditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the
previous fiscal year and the next fiscal year; and (ii) DKI to
provide new equity to PDAM Jaya which will be approximately equal to
10% of the total of its capital expenditures during the period 1990-
1996.

      (b)  For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   the term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations, consumer deposits
                        and con-sumer contributions in aid of
                        construction, new non-operating income and
                        any reduction in working capital other than
                        cash; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions, including administration, adequate

maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                        of taxes (excluding provision for deprecia-
                        tion and other non-cash operating charges),
                        debt service requirements, all cash divi-
                        dends and other cash distributions of
                        surplus, increase in working capital other
                        than cash and other cash outflows other
                        than capital expenditures;

           (ii)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above;

          (iii)   the term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  fiscal year;

           (iv)   the term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve month, including accounts
                  receiv-able, marketable securities, inventories
                  and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year;

            (v)   the term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under circumstances then existing be called for
                  payment within twelve months, including accounts
                  payable, customer advances, debt service require-
                  ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  dividends;

           (vi)   the term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt;

          (vii)   the term "capital expenditures" means
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  related to operations, including interest charged
                  to con-struction of those assets, but excluding
                  the expenditures incurred for the construction
                  of, and interest and commitment charges accrued
                  during construction of the Buaran II Water
                  Treatment Plant to be located in Jakarta; and

         (viii)   whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be  necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
                  currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.06. By January 1, 1993, and thereafter by January 1
in each third year, the Borrower shall cause the local government of
Tangerang together with PDAM Tangerang: (a) to adjust its tariffs,
on the basis of realistic forecasts, after reviewing the adequacy of
the tariffs of PDAM Tangerang to meet the requirements set forth in
Sections 4.07 and 4.08 of this Agreement for the next three fiscal
years; and (b) to furnish to the Bank such review upon its

completion.

      Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) PDAM Tangerang shall not incur any
debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures
of PDAM Tangerang shows that the projected net revenues of PDAM
Tangerang for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement of PDAM Tangerang in such year on all debt of PDAM
Tangerang including the debt to be incurred; and (b) PDAM
Tangerang’s debt shall be no more than 70% of its total capitali-
zation. For the purposes of this Section the terms and phrases have
the same meanings, mutatis mutandis, as in Section 4.04 of this
Agreement.

      Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause PDAM Tangerang to produce, for investment
purposes, funds from internal sources, for each of its fiscal years
commencing on its fiscal year January 1, 1990, equivalent to not
less than thirty percent (30%) of the annual average of its total
capital expenditures, incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal
year and the next fiscal year.

      (b)  For the purposes of this Section the terms and phrases
have the same meanings, mutatis mutandis, as in Section 4.05 (b) of
this Agreement, provided, however, that the term "capital expendi-
tures" means expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets
related to operations, including interest charged during construc-
tion of those assets, but excluding the expenditures incurred for
the construction of, and interest and commitment charges accrued
during construction of the Cisadane Water Treatment Plant to be
located in Tangerang.

      Section 4.09. With respect to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall charge tariffs for raw water, in accordance with
terms satisfactory to the Bank, beginning with the completion of the
first pipeline (estimated to be in calendar 1991); and there-after
shall review and adjust, if necessary, such tariff every three years
until full cost recovery is achieved. For the purpose of this
Section, the term "full cost recovery" has the same meaning as
provided for in the "Agreement on Provision and Utilization of Raw
Water for Drinking Water Delivered from the West Tarum Canal,"
entered into between the POJ and the PDAM Jaya dated March 28, 1985.

      Section 4.10. The Borrower shall cause DKI Jakarta, by
April 1, 1993, and by April 1 every three years thereafter, to
review the ground water abstraction fee and adjust such fee, based
on the relevant results of the groundwater study which is expected
to be completed by September 30, 1992, which groundwater study is
part of the overall Jabotabek Water Resources Management Study.

      Section 4.11. The Borrower shall provide all the financing for
the Buaran II Treatment Plant in DKI Jakarta and for the Cisadane
Treatment Plant in Tangerang, and shall modify all of its existing
agreements with PDAM Jaya and PDAM Tangerang to extend the existing
grace period to December 31, 2000, to provide for the accumulation
of interest and commitment fee during the grace period, and to
review the financial position of each PDAM Jaya and PDAM Tangerang
in the year 2000 in order to determine their capability of paying
the respective accumulated interest.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of DKI Jakarta, PDAM Jaya, or PDAM
Tangerang to efficiently carry out their respective activities;

(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PDAM Jaya or PDAM Tangerang or for the suspension of their
respective operations;

      (c)   either the Dutch Grant Agreement or the OECF Loan Agree-
ment shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1990, or
such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower estab-
lishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement; and

      (d)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that:

                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and

                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and condi-tions consistent
                        with the obligations of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) (i)
(B) (subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the PDAM
Jaya Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the PDAM Tangerang Subsidiary
Loan Agreement have each been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
DKI Jakarta, PDAM Jaya and PDAM Tangerang, respectively, and

      (b)   the Division in JUPCO referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement shall have been established and that the position of
Division Manager, Financial Accountant and Monitoring Officer shall
have been filled.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:

(a)   that the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DKI Jakarta, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and DKI Jakarta in accordance with
its terms;

      (b)   that the PDAM Jaya Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PDAM Jaya, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and PDAM Jaya in accordance with
its terms; and

      (c)   that the PDAM Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PDAM Tangerang,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PDAM Tangerang in
accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                44319 DEPKEU-IA
                  Jakarta                    45799 DJMLN-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                 INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
                 Washington, D.C.             64145 (WUI)
                                              82987 (FTCC) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                  By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated        Percentage of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Civil works             109,500,000       62%
      carried out by
      contract

(2)   Civil works               2,500,000       50% of unit cost
      carried out by
      force account

(3)   Goods                    35,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(4)   Training and             28,000,000       100%
      Technical
      Assistance

(5)   Unallocated              15,000,000
                              ___________

            TOTAL             190,000,000
                              ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "unit cost" means the unit cost for force
account works eligible for reimbursement (standard house connection,
public taps and low cost sewer works) which shall be established
from time to time by the Bank on the basis of average quantities and
prevailing unit rates.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be
made in respect of any Category on account of payments made for

expenditures before that date but after February 28, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to develop and implement a
coordinated program of physical investments, human resource develop-
ment, technical assistance and policies for urban water supply,
waste water disposal, drainage and water resource/quality management
in the Jabotabek area.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     PDAM Jaya Water Supply System Improvements

1.    Improvement of the PDAM Jaya water supply system, including
construction, repair or replacement of primary mains anddistribution facilities, 
rehabilitation of meters, secondary and
tertiary mains for about 70% of service area of DKI Jakarta and
infill and exten-sion of service mains system, for: (i) the
Distribution Zones 1, 2, 4 and 5; and (ii) for the Distribution
Zones 3 and 6.

2.    Strengthening PDAM Jaya’s operation and maintenance, water
treatment capabilities, management of its water supply distribution
system, its finances and personnel, and training managers,
engineers, and accounting staff, all through the provision of
technical assistance and related equipment.

3.    Construction of microdrainage in selected poorly drained areas
being provided with additional water supply under the Project.

Part B:     Pejompongan Raw Water Pipeline

1.    Laying of twin 1,600mm pipelines about 11 km long from the
West Tarum Canal to the Pejompongan water treatment plants, includ-
ing construction of a pumping station and provision of related
measures to protect the quality of water.

2.    Strengthening the management of POJ, including staff training,
through the provision of technical assistance.

Part C:     Cisadane Treated Water Transmission Main

1.    Construction of about 14.5 km pressure pipeline (1,500mm) from
the Cisadane I Water Treatment Plant, including two branch lines, to
the southwestern boundary of DKI Jakarta and about 2.5 km of primary
distribution mains to the town of Serpong.

2.    Strengthening the management of PDAM Tangerang, including
staff training, through the provision of technical assistance.

Part D:     Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Extension

1.    Construction and installation of a sewage pumping station,
main sewers, house and building service connections, and drains in
DKI Jakarta.

2.    Carrying out a low cost sewerage pilot project in DKI Jakarta.

3.    Strengthening the management of BPAL/PDAL, including staff
training, through the provision of technical assistance.

Part E:     Drainage and Flood Control

      Dredging and upgrading about 37 km of major canals and drains,
dredging of the Pluit storm water retention basin and rehabilitation
of its inlet system and pumping station, and construction of three

tidal gates and a diversion channel on the Ancol Canal, all in DKI
Jakarta.

Part F:     Technical Assistance

1.    Provision of technical assistance to assist in: (i) carrying
out a water resources management study; (ii) strengthening insti-
tutional arrangements for water resources management for Jabotabek;
and (iii) establishing a Jabotabek Water Data Center and carrying
out monitoring activities at Pasarbaru Barrage in Tangerang.

2.    Provision of technical assistance to assist in: (i) carrying
out Parts A through F.1 of the Project; (ii) providing support for
management training of DGHS; (iii) carrying out human resource
development in the Borrower’s urban infrastructure sector; and (iv)
preparing future projects for integrated urban infrastructure
development.

3.    Overall coordination of the Project implementation, including
provision of technical assistance therefor.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      March 1, 1996                             3,460,000
      September 1, 1996                         3,595,000
      March 1, 1997                             3,730,000
      September 1, 1997                         3,875,000
      March 1, 1998                             4,025,000
      September 1, 1998                         4,185,000
      March 1, 1999                             4,345,000
      September 1, 1999                         4,515,000
      March 1, 2000                             4,690,000
      September 1, 2000                         4,870,000
      March 1, 2001                             5,060,000
      September 1, 2001                         5,255,000
      March 1, 2002                             5,460,000
      September 1, 2002                         5,670,000
      March 1, 2003                             5,890,000
      September 1, 2003                         6,120,000
      March 1, 2004                             6,355,000
      September 1, 2004                         6,600,000
      March 1, 2005                             6,855,000
      September 1, 2005                         7,125,000
      March 1, 2006                             7,400,000
      September 1, 2006                         7,685,000
      March 1, 2007                             7,985,000
      September 1, 2007                         8,295,000
      March 1, 2008                             8,615,000
      September 1, 2008                         8,950,000
      March 1, 2009                             9,295,000
      September 1, 2009                         9,655,000
      March 1, 2010                            10,030,000
      September 1, 2010                        10,410,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
1.    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the

premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                                The interest rate
                                                (expressed as a
                                                percentage per
                                                annum) applicable
                                                to the Loan on the
                                                day of prepayment
                                                multiplied by:

Not more than three years                             0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                             0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                               0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                            0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                            0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    Bidders for major civil works such as reservoirs, pumping
stations sewers and laying large diameter pipes shall be pre-
qualified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for major civil works
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $3,000,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors

      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract and items or groups of
items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items for miscellaneous goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Installation of house connections, public taps and low cost
sewerage works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000,
may be carried out through force account procedures.

4.    Pumping equipment for Part E of the Project may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sec-
tions I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more, and with respect to
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said proce-dures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be fur-
nished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01(c)(ii) of this Agreement.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published

by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the res-
pective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Sche-
dule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.