World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3145 MA

                    Loan Agreement

   (Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Project)

                        between

                       MALAYSIA

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated January 11, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3145 MA

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1990, between MALAYSIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective

meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "JKR" means the Jabatan Kerja Raya (Public
Works Department);

     (b)  "HPU" means the Highway Planning Unit of the
Borrower; and

     (c)  "Ringgit" means the currency of the Borrower.

                      ARTICLE II

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of eighty-three million two hundred thousand
dollars ($83,200,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,

excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

               "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
          each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the
          preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest Period."

               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end
          of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
          Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."

               "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
          period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
          1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
administration and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V
              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the

date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia

          Cable address:           Telex:

               TREASURY              MA 30242
               Kuala Lumpur          MA 32369

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD             440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                     64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               MALAYSIA

               By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items

to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Civil works:                     40%

   (a) for road        23,100,000
       maintenance
       improvement

   (b) for other       43,100,000
       civil works

(2)    Equipment        6,200,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures,
                                        100% of local
                                        expenditures
                                        (ex-factory), and
                                        85% of local
                                        expenditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3)    Consultants’    10,800,000       100%
   services and
   training
                       __________

       TOTAL           83,200,000
                       ==========

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $8,000,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures under Category
(1) before that date but after May 1, 1989.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve
timely road maintenance, (ii) to enhance cost
effectiveness of road maintenance, (iii) to upgrade road
maintenance planning, programming and management, and
(iv) to promote road safety.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Infrastructure

1.   Implementation of a program to improve maintenance
of federal roads and bridges, including the
rehabilitation and strengthening of about 562 kilometers
of road pavements and improvement of maintenance
operations.

2.   Replacement of about 43 bridges on primary roads and
about 24 timber bridges on secondary roads of the federal
highway system.

3.   Implementation of a program to control truck weight,
including the construction of about 35 weigh stations.

4.   Improvement of highway sections totalling about 56
kilometers.

5.   Implementation of a program to improve road safety
including the improvement of about 42 hazardous road
sections and the construction of about 27 pedestrian
bridges.

Part B:   Consultant’s Services, Technical Assistance and
Training

1.   Consultant’s services for design and construction
supervision for works under Part A of the Project.

2.   Provision of technical assistance:

     (a)  to strengthen the capacity of HPU to plan and
coordinate road investments;

     (b)  to strengthen the capabilities of JKR in
contract supervision, in the establishment and
implementation of a pavement and a bridge management
systems, and in maintenance training;

     (c)  to improve road safety monitoring and analysis;
and

     (d)  to establish methodologies for determining the
environmental impact of road works.

3.   Staff training in maintenance programming and
operations, transport planning, traffic engineering, and
road safety analysis.

                      *   *    *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

     beginning September 1, 1995
     through  September 1, 2006              3,465,000

On March 1, 2007                             3,505,000

_________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but                   0.88
     not more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years                      1.00
     before maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   For bidding purposes, contracts for civil works
shall be grouped to the extent practicable, in
appropriate packages in such a manner as shall be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank so as to permit
bulk procurement.

3.   Bidders for civil works contracts shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.l hereof, goods
manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for civil works each estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be awarded in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of prequalification:

     With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided in Part A.3 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts
shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii)
of this Agreement.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program

1.   The Borrower shall by June 30, 1990 make HPU
responsible for coordination of federal and state
investments in highways, and for coordination of such
investments with other transport investments planned by
the Ministry of Transport or any other agency.

2.   (a)  The Borrower shall by April 30, 1990 and by
April 30 of each year thereafter, exchange views with the
Bank on the allocation of funds for maintenance of roads
and bridges for the following year, with a view of
achieving an appropriate balance between construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance.

(b)  By December 31, 1994, the Borrower shall reduce
the existing backlog of deferred periodic maintenance of
roads by at least 70% through the provision of adequate
resources to carry out the work required.

3.   The Borrower shall by November 30, 1991 and by
November 30 of each year thereafter, review with the Bank
the scope and composition, and the procedures and methods
to be applied in the preparation, of the program of
maintenance of federal roads and bridges for the
following year.

4.   The Borrower shall carry out in accordance with a
program and time-table satisfactory to the Bank:

     (a)  improvement in maintenance of federal roads and
bridges;

     (b)  truck wright control; and

     (c)  road safety improvement.

5.   The Borrower shall, in accordance with procedures
and criteria satisfactory to the Bank, carry out training
and award fellowships under Part B.3 of the Project.

6.   The Borrower shall implement the Project in
accordance with an action plan and time-schedule
satisfactory to the Bank.

7.   Without limitation to the provision of Section 9.07
(a) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall include
in the information furnished to the Bank, data on
monitoring of road maintenance and pavement
rehabilitation, and other items as shall have been agreed
with the Bank.

8.   The Borrower shall include roads and bridges to be
constructed or improved under the Project, only those
with an economic rate of return of at least 12% as
determined in accordance with a method satisfactory to
the Bank, consistently applied to all such roads and
bridges.