World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3208 ME

         (Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

       BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.

                        Dated June 5, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3208 ME

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "SCT" means Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes
(Secretariat of Communications and Transport) of the Guarantor;

      (c)   "TELECOMM" means Telecomunicaciones de Mexico, a
decentralized public enterprise of the Guarantor established by
Presidential Decree of November 17, 1989, published in the Diario
Oficial de la Federacion dated November 17, 1989, and which is
wholly-owned by the Guarantor;

      (d)   "Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment
Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower for Loan No. 3207-ME, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time;

      (e)   "TELMEX" means Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V., a
telephone company established originally as a private enterprise by
an Escritura Constitutiva No. 34726, dated December 23, 1947, and
subsequently taking the character of a parastatal enterprise since
November 1, 1972 with majority ownership by the Guarantor; and

      (f)   "IMC" means Instituto Mexicano de las Comunicaciones
(Mexican Institute of Communications) organized within SCT.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty two million dollars ($22,000,000) as the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures made,
or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly

notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Article III

                    Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                          Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor
providing, inter alia, for relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Guarantor on the same terms and conditions as are set forth in
Section 2.04, 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of this Agreement.  Except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall
be carried out by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the
Guarantee Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate records and accounts reflecting the resources and
the expenditures in respect of the Project.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                  this Agreement, its accounts and financial state-
                  ments (including balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) and
                  records and accounts for the Special Account for
                  each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent and qualified auditors;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning the said records, accounts and
                  financial statements and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan

Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall have been executed; and

      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Loan
Agreement shall have been fulfilled.

      Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and are
legally binding upon them in accordance with their terms.

      Section 5.03. The date September 4, 1990 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            Article VI

                              Address

      Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:          Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD            197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.     248423 (RCA)
                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                        82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Banco Nacional de Obras y
                Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
            Insurgentes Norte 423
            Mexico DF 06900
            Mexico

Cable address:          Telex:

                  BANTECARIO           BNOSME
                  Mexico City          01772619
                                       Mexico City

                                    Telefax:

                                      5
02-90
                                      5
51-39

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                            Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                  BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                     PaBLICOS, S.N.C

                  By /s/ Alberto Lopez Vargas
                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Consultants’            6,500,000         100%
      services
      under Parts A.2,
      B.2 and C of
      the Project

(2)   Training                  700,000         100%

(3)   Equipment              12,800,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures

(4)   Unallocated             2,000,000

                              _________

      TOTAL                  22,000,000

==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after February 28, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide technical
assistance to SCT (i) to strengthen its capability to regulate
telecommunication services and networks including the development of
systems for approval of technical standards for telecommunications
equipment; and (ii) to modernize and improve its administrative and
technical capability to plan, allocate and control the use of the
radio spectrum; and

      (b)   to assist TELECOMM in developing its business activities
in the restructured environment.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Regulation of Services and Networks

1.    Technical assistance to SCT in developing methodologies for
pricing basic telephone services and for the classification of the
different types of networks and services and for their regulation in
a competitive environment.

2.    Preparation of a program to strengthen the capability of SCT
(including, where appropriate, IMC), to regulate telecommunications
networks and services in the restructured environment, including
training and acquisition and utilization of equipment for the
initial implementation of such program.

Part B:     Regulation of the Radio Spectrum

1.    Carrying out of a review of SCT’s existing capabilities and
on-going work in management and monitoring of the radio spectrum,
formulation of terms of reference for a modernization and
improvement program and preparation of cost estimates for such
program.

2.    Preparation of a modernization and improvement program for
SCT’s management and monitoring of the radio spectrum, including
training and acquisition and utilization of equipment for the
initial implementation of such program.

Part C:     TELECOMM Business Development

1.    Technical assistance for the preparation of business
development program for the expansion and modernization of
TELECOMM’s satellite system and other transmission facilities,
including assistance in the market potential for new services, and

exploring opportunities for joint ventures.

                          *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment                        (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning January 15, 1996
      through   January 15, 2007             915,000

On July 15, 2007                             955,000

_______________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but not                     0.65
      more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

I.    Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent

with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the United Mexican
States may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Local competitive bidding

      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per
contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Shopping

      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per
contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract awarded under Part A
hereof, and (ii) the first two contracts awarded under Part C.1
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding paragraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

II.   Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the Project,
the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published

by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. The Borrower shall make withdrawals from the Special
Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis of the
evidence that the Bank shall have reasonably determined and shall
debit the Special Account with the amount in dollars so withdrawn or
with the Dollar equivalent of the currency other than dollars in
which the payment was made, determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the dollar and such currency in effect: (i) on the
date of each payment if the withdrawal from the Special Account in
respect of such payment has been made within 90 days of the date of
such payment; or (ii) on the date each withdrawal shall have been
made.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or pay-
                  ments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  made out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said

documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.