World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3224-VE

                (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated October 15, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3224-VE

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 23, 1990
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s
financial sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution; and

      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of a Debt Reduction
Plan (as hereinafter defined);

      (C)   the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;

(D)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program and the Project to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as
hereinafter provided; and

      (E)   the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that the
execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower’s Law "LEY PROGRAMA PARA EL FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PLAN DE
INVERSIONES EN INFRAESTRUCTURA SOCIAL Y EN INFRAESTRUCTURA DE APOYO
A LA PRODUCCION, DEL PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO SOCIAL, DEL PROGRAMA DE
PREINVERSION, SUPERVISION Y ASISTENCIA TECNICA, DEL PLAN DE
INVERSIONES DE ENTES DEL SECTOR PUBLICO Y DE OPERACIONES DE
REDUCCION DE LA DEUDA PUBLICA EXTERNA, QUE SE EJECUTARA DURANTE EL
PERIODO 1990 - 1994" published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
Extraordinary Issue No. 4194 dated July 30, 1990.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

     (a)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a joint report, of such scope and in such
      detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
      of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
      Agreement, the carrying out of the Project, the performance by
      the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
      under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Loan."; and

      (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);

      (b)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
beginning on January 1 of each year;

      (c)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the Borrower
submitted to the Bank for partial funding under this Agreement to
reduce the Borrower’s eligible payments on its external loans from
non-official creditors;

      (d)   "First Tranche", "Second Tranche" and "Third Tranche"
means the amount of the proceeds of the Loan allocated, from time to
time, to Categories 1, 2 and 3, respectively, of paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "SBIF" means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Bancos
e Instituciones Financieras (Superintendency of Banks and Financial
Institutions);

      (f)   "FOGADE" means the Borrower’s Fondo de Garantia de
Depositos (Deposit Insurance Fund);

      (g)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de Venezuela, the
Borrower’s Central Bank;

(h)   "BIV", "ICAP" and "CORPOINDUSTRIA" mean the Borrower’s
Banco Industrial de Venezuela, Instituto de Credito Agricola y
Pecuario and Corporacion de Desarrollo de la Pequena y Mediana
Industria, respectively;

      (i)   "FIV" means the Borrower’s Fondo de Inversiones de
Venezuela;

      (j)   "SCS" means the Borrower’s Superintendencia de Companias
de Seguro;

      (k)   "BANDAGRO" means the Borrower’s Banco de Desarrollo
Agropecuario (Agricultural Development Bank);

      (l)   "Banking Law" means the Borrower Ley General de Bancos
y Otros Institutos de Credito, as published in the Extraordinary
issue of the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated February 4, 1988;

      (m)   "Central Bank Law" means the Borrower’s Ley del Banco
Central de Venezuela, as published in the Extraordinary issue of the
Borrower’s Official Gazette dated August 21, 1987; and

      (n)   "Ley de Credito" means the Borrower’s Ley Organica de
Credito Publico, as published in the Extraordinary issue of the
Borrower’s Official Gazette dated September 14, 1983.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) The Minister of Finance of the Borrower, or
the person or persons to be appointed by said Minister, are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions in respect of withdrawals under Categories 1
through 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Withdrawal applications under the Loan, other than for
Part B of the Project, shall to the extent practicable be consoli-
dated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000) equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

          Execution of the Project; Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project, and if so determined under Section 3.05 of this
Agreement, Part C of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate commercial,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without any restriction or limitation to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) coordinate
all activities under Part B of the Project through a unit to be

established in the Central Bank and maintained until the carrying
out of such Part of the Project shall have been completed; (ii) make
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time to time from the Loan
Account under the provisions of this Agreement, particularly Section
2.08, and Schedule 1, available to the entities mentioned in Schedu-
les 1 and 2 to the Loan Agreement on a grant basis; and (iii) enter
into with the entities mentioned in (ii) hereof in as many contrac-
tual arrangements as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to
comply with all its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and on maintaining the consistency
referred to in paragraphs 5 (b) and 6 (b) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and on maintaining the
consistency referred to in paragraphs 5 (b) and 6 (b) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 3.05. Subject to agreement by the Borrower and the
Bank on the terms and conditions to be applied in such case, the
Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the implementation of a Debt
Reduction Plan under Part C of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out all
studies included in the Project under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank; (ii) promptly after the completion of each such
study, furnish to the Bank copy of its findings and recommendations;
(iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
findings and recommendations; and (iv) where appropriate, prepare
plans of action for the carrying out of such recommendations taking
into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

      (b)   The Borrower undertakes to carry out such plans of
action as required to meet the objectives of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a) that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program;

      (b) that the execution of Part B.1 (e) of the Project has been
initiated, in form and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; and

      (c) that all such action as shall be necessary shall have been
taken, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank: (i) to put into effect new regulations which SBIF will have
the responsibility to apply (A) strengthening, in general, the areas
of loan portfolio classification and provisioning, loan rollovers
and interest accrual, asset writing-off, and establishment of
criteria for the measurement through indicators of investment
quality, and for the valuation of collateral, and (B) requiring, in
particular, each commercial and mortgage bank and finance company to
institute a general loan loss provision of not less than 2% of its
total loan portfolio and to write off any loan in respect of which
one or more payments have been overdue by more than 36 months;
(ii) to ensure that each SBIF institution is required to obtain, as
part of its regular annual audits, a separate opinion from its
external auditors on portfolio classification and loan concentra-
tion; (iii) to require BIV to invest the proceeds of new deposits
and portfolio recoveries only in securities issued by the Borrower’s
Treasury or Central Bank until the resumption of BIV’s activities
pursuant to paragraph 9 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

and (iv) to limit BANDAGRO’s on-going operations and to forbid new
ones.

      Section 5.02. The date of January 15, 1991 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Direccion General Sectorial
             de Finanzas Publicas
            Edificio Norte, Piso 5
            Centro Simon Bolivar
            Caracas 1010, Venezuela

                                          Telex:   24215 HDACP

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                  By /s/ Carlos Stark
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Imported goods          71,000,000        100% of foreign
      under Part A                              expenditures
      of the Project
      to be financed
      under the First
      Tranche

(2)   Imported goods          71,000,000        100% of foreign
      under Part A                              expenditures
      of the Project
      to be financed
      under the Second
      Tranche

(3)   Imported goods          76,000,000        100% of foreign
      under Part A                              expenditures
      of the Project
      to be financed
      under the Third
      Tranche

(4)   Debt Reduction          75,000,000        To be agreed by
      Plan                                      the Bank and the
                                                Borrower, subject
                                                to paragraph 8
                                                below

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(5)   Consultant               7,000,000        100%
      services, studies
      and training
      under Part B of
      the Project

                             ___________

      TOTAL                  300,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, and the
term "Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      112               -           Alcoholic beverages

121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse

      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)

      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      667            -              Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked

      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements (car-
                                    tridges), non-irradiated for
                                    nuclear reactors

      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                    wares (including set gems)

      971            -              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $60,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
March 31, 1990;

      (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;

      (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and

      (f)   expenditures for foodstuffs in excess of the aggregate
equivalent of $45,000,000.

4.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the pro-
curement of goods, other than goods for Part B of the Project,
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank
upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify.

5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category 2 of the Table unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
(b) that the Borrower’s macro-economic framework is consistent with
the objectives of the Program; and (c) that the actions described in
Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken.

6.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category 3 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by

the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the
Borrower’s macro-economic framework is consistent with the objec-
tives of the Program; and (c) that the actions described in Parts A
and B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken.

7.    If, after any of the exchanges of views described in para-
graphs 5 and 6 above, the Bank shall have given notice to the
Borrower that the progress or level of consistency achieved, or
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress or consistency
or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or
any part thereof.

8.    If an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the use
of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan designated for the
implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan shall not have been entered
into by February 28, 1991, or such later date as approved by the
Bank, then the amount of $75,000,000 under Category 4 shall, at the
request of the Borrower, be reallocated in equal portions to
Categories 1, 2 and 3 of the Table for Part A of the Project.

9.    The provisions of this Schedule are without prejudice to the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.

                              SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the adjustment of its financial sector, and, if so
determined under Section 3.05 of this Agreement, in the implemen-
tation of a Debt Reduction Plan.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Imports

      Financing of imported goods required during the execution of
the Program.

Part B:     Technical Assistance

      Execution of a technical assistance program designed to
strengthen the regulatory capabilities of SBIF, FOGADE, the
Borrower’s Banco Nacional de Ahorro y Prestamo (BANAP), Comision
Nacional de Valores (CNV) and SCS, as shown below. Additionally, the
program will also assist: (i) the Central Bank’s unit referred to in
Part B.5 below to coordinate all activities required to bring about
the objectives of the Program and the Project; (ii) the Borrower’s
Ministry of Finance in its required reorganization pursuant to the
Program; and (iii) BIV, ICAP and CORPOINDUSTRIA, in their respective
restructuring programs.

1.    SBIF (a) development of a new regulatory framework for SBIF
and assisting SBIF in its implementation; (b) development of a new
organizational structure for SBIF and assisting SBIF in the
placement of staff in the new structure; (c) development of an
inspection manual and of a synthesis of revised SBIF norms; (d)
training of SBIF staff, including participation of staff in courses
and seminars in Venezuela and abroad and in-house courses in
selected subjects; and (e) assistance to help SBIF to perform
external audits of substantial parts of portfolio of selected SBIF
Institutions.

2.    FOGADE (a) redefinition of FOGADE’s objectives and development
of a new operational plan, procedures and staffing profiles to
achieve the new objectives; (b) execution of a study to assess
FOGADE’s financial condition and to design a medium-term financial
management plan; and (c) training trips abroad for selected FOGADE

staff.

3.    BANAP (a) execution of studies of the (i) value of portfolios
of about 20 selected savings and loans institutions and (ii) of the
financial position of BANAP; and (b) assisting BANAP in  (i)
developing and implementing action plans for the merger, restructur-
ing or liquidation of the institutions studied under (a) (i) above;
and (ii) developing a plan for the financial restructuring of BANAP
on the basis of the study under (a) (ii) above.

4.    SCS (a) evaluation of about 50 insurance companies in order to
assess the state of the insurance industry; and (b) design of
revised norms for SCS.

5.    CENTRAL BANK (a) establishment of the unit referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement that will also coordinate and
help implement the Program; and (b) drafting of the proposed
legislation and development of the plans and detailed actions
thereunder, all as required for purposes of the revised legal
provisions required under the Program and in order to meet condi-
tions under Schedule 5 to this Agreement, including creation of new
second-tier institutions.

6.    Ministry of Finance:  (a) development of plans of actions to
reorganize the Ministry so as to adjust it to the new respon-
sibilities arising thereto to coordinate and supervise the ac-
tivities of the new second-tier institutions to be created under the
Program, as well as those of INCAP and CORPOINDUSTRIA once
restructured; and (b) acquisition and utilization of auditing
services to enable the Borrower’s compliance with its obligations
under Section 3.04 of this Agreement.

7.    CNV: execution of studies with the purpose of assessing
capital markets in Venezuela, determining their constraints and
developing action plans for their reform, if warranted.

Part C:     Debt Reduction Plan

      Assistance to the Borrower in the implementation of a Debt
Reduction Plan which, in the judgement of the Borrower and of the
Bank, shall meet the requirements of the Bank’s support of debt
reduction.

                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      beginning September 15, 1995
      through March 15, 2005                    15,000,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years before                 1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international circula-
                  tion; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   subject to paragraph (e) below, by purchasers required
to follow the Borrower’s public procurement procedures for the
importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided such
procedures shall have been found acceptable to the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines;

      (c)   notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (b)
above, in the case of the purchasers referred to therein, if the
estimated cost of the contract is equivalent to less than
$1,000,000, in accordance with established commercial practices
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank;

      (d)   by any purchasers for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier; and

      (e)   with respect to Part B of the Project:

            (A)   Items or groups of items estimated to cost more
                  than the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured
                  under contracts awarded through limited inter-
                  national bidding procedures on the basis of
                  evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
                  list of at least three qualified suppliers
                  eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
                  with the procedures set forth in Sections I and
                  II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
                  2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

            (B)   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less
                  than the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured
                  under contracts awarded on the basis of com-
                  parison of price quotations solicited from a list
                  of at least three suppliers eligible under the
                  Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
                  acceptable to the Bank.

3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, other than in sub-paragraph (e) thereof, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.

5.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts in respect of each contract referred to in sub-paragraph
(e) of paragraph 2 of this Schedule:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

6.  The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4 and 5 (b) of this
Schedule shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank
has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                         SCHEDULE 5

         Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 5 (b) and 6 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

Part A:

1.    SBIF: (a) shall have issued changes as presented by the
Borrower under the Program, satisfactory to the Bank, to the regula-
tions applicable to any bank or financial institution within SBIF’s
jurisdiction (SBIF Institution) on exchange risk valuation, loan
concentration limits, and controls for transactions amongst any
given group of SBIF Institutions inter-related through equity
ownership or control, including requirements for consolidation of
accounts of, and uniform criteria for preparation of financial
statements for, each such group; and (b) shall have completed
studies on portfolio review, fixed asset valuation, loan con-
centration and foreign exchange losses under Part B.1 of the
Project.

2.    The Borrower’s Executive Branch shall have submitted to the
Borrower’s Congress a proposed law for the modification of laws
currently governing SBIF as presented by the Borrower under the
Program, satisfactory to the Bank, which, inter alia, will aim at
(a) tightening norms on capital requirements and lending concentra-
tion, and widening the scope of sanctions, including fines, that
SBIF is authorized to impose on any SBIF Institution that has not
abide by SBIF’s regulations;  (b) reorganizing SBIF as an autonomous
entity with its own revenues and with a budget subject only to
Central Bank’s Board approval; (c) granting full executive powers to
the Superintendent subject, in respect of certain specific matters,
to approval of a Consultative Committee; and (d) ensuring that the
Superintendent will be supported by experienced and qualified
management who shall report exclusively to said Superintendent.

3.    The Borrower’s Executive Branch shall have submitted to the
Borrower’s Congress a proposed law for the modification of the laws
currently governing FOGADE as presented by the Borrower under the
Program, satisfactory to the Bank, aiming at: (a) defining clearly
the role of FOGADE in the management of banking crises; (b) streng-
thening the mechanisms available to FOGADE for the resolution of
said crises; (c) strengthening FOGADE’s financial position;
(d) enabling FOGADE to manage its own funds; and (e) enabling
FOGADE, through changes in its accounting and financial statements
preparation methods, to reveal accurately its operations and
financial condition.

4.    The Borrower’s Executive Branch shall have submitted to the
Borrower’s Congress a proposal for modification of the Central Bank
Law as presented by the Borrower under the Program, satisfactory to
the Bank, which: (a) shall grant to Central Bank the power to

regulate interest rates charged and paid by all  financial inter-
mediaries, including savings and loans and development funds;
(b) shall eliminate the Central Bank’s obligation to exercise the
power referred to in (a) above, thus allowing Central Bank to letinterest rates to be 
determined by the market; (c) shall allow
Central Bank to purchase Treasury bills, subject to the credit limit
referred to in (d) below, provided, however that any such purchase
should take place after an auction, on a residual basis and at the
average price of such auction; (d) shall enable  Central Bank to
include, as part of the overall limit of credit from Central Bank to
the Borrower that will be maintained at its current level, the
nominal value of Central Bank holdings of, or rights to the,
Borrower’s debt (including, but not limited to, holdings or rights
originated in Borrower’s debt-equity swaps or in the Borrower’s debt
denominated in foreign currency with the exception, on a transitory
basis, of holdings or rights originated in ongoing reduction or
restructuring of external public debt); (e) shall allow Central Bank
to enter into discounting, rediscounting, advancing or repurchase
contractual (or otherwise evidenced) arrangements with SBIF Institu-
tions, to the extent said transactions are limited to a 30-day
maximum duration; and (f) shall eliminate the current obligation of
Central Bank of limiting its purchases of Treasury bills to those
redeemable within the execution period corresponding to the Fiscal
Year in which such bills are purchased.

5.    Central Bank shall have, in respect of each of the commercial
banks it owns, completed the valuation of such bank’s net worth and
made available to prospective purchasers the bidding or tender
documents for the sale thereof, all to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank.

6.    A program shall have been submitted to the Bank, whereby
Central Bank will disengage, on terms presented by the Borrower
under the Program and satisfactory to the Bank, all portfolios
which, as of March 15, 1990, were held in trust by Central Bank,
with the exception of Fideicomiso Cambiario.

7.    The Borrower’s Executive Branch shall have submitted to the
Borrower’s Congress one or more proposed laws as presented by the
Borrower under the Program, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, for the creation of: (a) a second-tier agricultural credit
institution which would absorb all assets and liabilities of, among
other agricultural funds, the Fondo de Credito Agropecuario, of the
Fondo del Cafe and of the Fondo Fruticola and (b) a second-tier
industrial credit institution which would absorb the assets and
liabilities of, among other industrial funds, each of Fondo de
Credito Industrial and Fondo de Industria y Tecnologia and of the
second-tier intermediation operations of FIV.

8.    The Borrower’s Executive Branch shall have submitted to the
Borrower’s Congress one or more proposed laws as presented by the
Borrower under the Program, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, providing for modifications to Ley de Credito so as to
(a) permit (i) issuance by the Borrower’s Treasury of fixed term
negotiable short-term Treasury bills not mandatorily reedemable
within the execution period corresponding to the Fiscal Year in
which such bills were issued and (ii) market determination of the
price of said bills, and to (b) prevent the maintenance or estab-
lishment of any system or mandatory ranking of purchasers requiring,
or leading to, the preferential placement of Treasury bills issued
in accordance with (a) above amongst one or more pre-determined
types of agents or purchasers.

9.    The Borrower shall have commissioned services, including, if
so required, the services of consultants, or shall have caused said
services to be commissioned, for purposes of completing, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Borrower, Central Bank and the
Bank, a plan of prompt action for the financial recovery, staff
rationalization, administrative reorganization or restructuring of
BIV and the four regional banks owned by BIV.  Such plan shall
contain a schedule for the resumption of BIV’s lending activities.

Part B:

1.    The Borrower shall have submitted to the Bank a program
satisfactory to the Bank for the capitalization of FOGADE, with
contributions therefor starting not later than January 1991.

2.    The Borrower shall have made contributions to FOGADE under the
program referred to in 1 above, which shall cover not less than 50%
of FOGADE’s losses.

3.    The Borrower’s Executive Branch shall have submitted to the
Borrower’s Congress a proposed law as presented by the Borrower
under the Program, satisfactory to the Bank, modifying the Bor-
rower’s Banking Law so as to: (a) indicate the procedures and the
role of the various Borrower’s agencies and administrative sub-divi-
sions, involved in solving banking crises; (b) increase minimum
capital requirements for entry into the system of a new SBIF
Institution which will supply commercial or mortgage banking
services, to not less than the equivalent of $6,000,000; (c)  allow
universal banking and introduce procedures to facilitate mergers and
consolidations; (d)  set as 1 to 20 the minimum permissible ratio
between equity and total assets for commercial banks, mortgage banks
and finance companies, while allowing the future introduction of a
risk-weighted system for the computation of the asset base (inclu-
ding some contingencies); (e) allow (i) up to 20% foreign ownership
of commercial banks, upon enactment of the revised law, and up to
30% in the future with prior authorization of the Borrower’s
Executive Branch and (ii) Executive Branch authorization as the sole
step required to enable foreigners to acquire up to 100% of any
financial intermediary operating in Venezuela other than a
commercial bank subject to the prior issuance of general operative
criteria therefor; and (f) to eliminate the possibility of computing
the value of Treasury bills held by a bank as part of its reserve
requirements.

4.    The Borrower, including all of the Borrower’s agencies, shall
have taken all such measures as shall be necessary to ensure that
Central Bank and each other agency of the Borrower which directly or
indirectly owned or controlled, as of April 30, 1990, an equitable
interest in any of the banks referred to in paragraph 5 of Part A of
this Schedule shall have divested of such interest by selling it to
private purchasers or by otherwise disposing of such interest in
form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.

5.    The Borrower shall have taken all such action as shall be
necessary in respect of the Plans in accordance with the time-table
therefor; for purposes of this Part B.5, "Plans" means (A) the
strategic plan indicating the role of CORPOINDUSTRIA and ICAP as
first-tier credit institutions, (B) the action plan for their
restructuring, (C) both satisfactory to the Bank and (D) to be
submitted to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement before proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category 2
of the table in paragraph 1 of such Schedule shall have been
withdrawn.

6.    Central Bank and FOGADE shall have taken all the action
required on their part to disengage FOGADE’s portfolio from Central
Bank’s trusteeship and to enable FOGADE to exercise an effective
control of decisions on the management thereof, or to obtain an
equivalent result.

7.    The Borrower shall have issued a Decree reducing agricultural
lending requirement on commercial banks to 12% of each bank’s total
portfolio.