World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3152 TR

                    Loan Agreement

             (Structural Adjustment Loan)

                        between

            REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated January 25, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3152 TR

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT,  dated January 25, 1990, between REPUBLIC
OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated
November 17, 1989 from the Borrower describing a program
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing
of urgently needed imports and services required during
such execution;

     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the
Export and Import Bank of Japan (Eximbank of Japan) a

loan (the Eximbank Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$40,000,000 to assist in financing the Program on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Eximbank Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Eximbank of Japan; and

     (C) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
l, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:

     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified
to read:

          "’Project’ means the imports and other
     activities that may be financed out of the proceeds
     of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule
     l to the Loan Agreement.";

     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

          "(c)  Not later than six months after the
     Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
     for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank,
     the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
     a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
     the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
     Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
     Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
     the Loan."; and

     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev. 3 (1986);

    (b)  "SOE" means state-owned enterprise which is
established under the laws of the Borrower and which is
wholly-owned or majority-owned by the Borrower;

    (c)  "SOE Divestment and Rationalization Program"
means the program to restructure, sell, transfer,
liquidate, merge, lease or otherwise dispose of wholly or
partially, selected SOEs provided by the Borrower to the
Bank on September 29, 1989;

     (d)  "NHMC" means National Hospital Management

Company, a company established by and wholly-owned by the
Borrower;

    (e)  "SNC" means School Nutrition Company, a company
established by and wholly-owned by the Borrower;

     (f)  "NSR" means National (Secondary Roads)
Development Company, a company established by and
wholly-owned by the Borrower;

     (g)  "WAS A" means the Water and Sewerage Authority
of the Borrower, established by an Act of Parliament of
the Borrower on September 1, 1965;

     (h)  "TTEC" means the Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commission of the Borrower, established by an
Act of Parliament of the Borrower on January 1, 1946;

     (i)  "PSIP" means the public sector investment
program of the Borrower;

     (j)  "MOP AM" means the Borrower’s Ministry of
Planning and Mobilization;

     (k)  "RSU" means the Restructuring Support Unit
established within the MOPAM;

     (l)  "CET" means Commom External Tariff, the system
of tariff structure  developed by agreement among member
states of the Caribbean Community in accordance with the
Treaty of Chaguaramas, dated July 4, 1973 as such
agreement may be modified from time to time by agreement
among such members;

     (m)  "SSU" means the Social Sectors Unit established
within the MOPAM; and

    (n)  "Technical Assistance Loan Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank for Loan 3153 TR.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000) being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

     Section 2 03  The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1991 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and

outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)/  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

     (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
            ending on the date immediately preceding
            each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
            Agreement, beginning with the Interest
            Period in which this Agreement is signed.

     (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
            cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
            and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
            the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn
            down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
            borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank
            has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
            investments; and (B) loans which may be made
            by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
            interest rates determined otherwise than as
            provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

     (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
             second six months of a calendar year.

    (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

         "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

         "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

      (c)  (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
     commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
     1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

Section 2.08. (a) The Central Bank of Trinidad and
Tobago is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.

     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the
foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank
of Trinidad and Tobago with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Bank in support of such
applications;  such withdrawal applications shall to the
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $250,000
equivalent.

                      ARTICLE III

                 Particular Covenants

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
from time to time,  at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

     (i)h   have the records and accounts referred to in
            paragraph (a) of this Section for each
            fiscal year audited, in accordance with
            appropriate auditing principles consistently
            applied, by independent auditors acceptable
            to the Bank;

     (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
            but in any case not later than six months
            after the end of each such year, a certified
            copy of the report of such audit by said
            auditors, of such scope and in such detail
            as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
            and

     (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
            concerning said records and accounts and the
            audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
            time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
            accordance with paragraph (a) of this
            Section, records and accounts reflecting
            such expenditures;

     (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
            Bank has received the audit report for the
            fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
            from the Loan Account was made, all records
            (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
            receipts and other documents) evidencing
            such expenditures;

     (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
            such records; and

     (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
            included in the annual audits referred to in
            paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
            report of such audit contains a separate
            opinion by said auditors as to whether the
            statements of expenditure submitted during
            such fiscal year, together with the
            procedures and internal controls involved in
            their preparation, can be relied upon to
            support the related withdrawals.

                      ARTICLE IV

            Additional Event of Suspension

     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6 02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  That a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.

    (b)  The Eximbank Loan Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by June 30, 1990, or such later date as
the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for the Program are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.

     (c)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:

               (A)  the right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of the
                    Eximbank Loan made to the Borrower
                    for the financing of the Program
                    shall have been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in part, pursuant to the terms of
                    the Eximbank Loan Agreement; or

               (B)  the Eximbank Loan shall have become
                    due and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof

     (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
            apply if the Borrower establishes to the
            satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
            suspension, cancellation, termination or

prematuring is not caused by the failure of
            the Borrower to perform any of its
            obligations under such agreement; and (B)
            adequate funds for the Program are available
            to the Borrower from other sources on terms
            and conditions consistent with the
            obligations of the Borrower under this
            Agreement.

                       ARTICLE V

                      Termination

     Section 5.01. The date April 25, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a)
of this Agreement, the Minister responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

            Permanent Secretary
            Ministry of Finance
            Port of Spain
            Trinidad

                                        Telex:

                                        22450

     For the Bank:

            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:              Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                4400989 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia United States of
America,  as of the day and year first above written.

                    REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

By /s/ Selby Wilson
                              Authorized Representative

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By /s/ Ping Cheung Loh
          Acting Vice President Regional Vice President
                        Latin America and the Caribbean

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made
(or, of the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a) expenditures for goods included in the following
SITC groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

     Group          Sub-group      Description of Items

     112               -           Alcoholic beverages

     121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactu-
                                   red, tobacco refuse

     122               -           Tobacco, manufactured
                                   (whether or not con-
                                   taining tobacco
                                   substitutes)

     525               -           Radioactive and asso-
                                   ciated materials,

     667               -           Pearls, precious and
                                   semi-precious stones,
                                   unworked or worked

     718            718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                   parts thereof, fuel
                                   elements (cartridges),
                                   non-irradiated for
                                   nuclear reactors

     897            897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                   silver or platinum
                                   group metals (except
                                   watches and watch
                                   cases) and goldsmiths’
                                   or silversmiths’ wares
                                   (including set gems)

     971               -           Gold, non-monetary

(excluding gold ores
                                   and concentrates)

    (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

    (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $8,000,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after August 1, 1989;

    (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $5,000 equivalent;

    (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution
or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or
agreed to finance;

    (f)  expenditures for petroleum products, or for
goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or
for luxury consumption;

    (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 for foodstuffs; and

    (h)  expenditures for goods imported under contracts
for the supply of commodities if such contracts were
awarded by direct contracting without competition.

3.   Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than
$1,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify.

4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the
Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

5.   If, after the exchange of views described in
paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall have given notice to
the Borrower that the progress achieved and the actions
taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                      SCHEDULE 2

                 Amortization Schedule

                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

     beginning May 15, 1995
     through November 15, 2004     2,000,000

*    The figures  in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment            Premium

                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.20
     before maturity

More than three years but               0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                 0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but              0.87
     not more than thirteen years
     before maturity

More than thirteen years                1.00
     before maturity

                      SCHEDULE 3

                      Procurement

1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

    (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines  is deleted and
the following is substituted there for:

     "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be
     notified in a timely manner of the opportunity to
     bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
     to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation
     list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be placed in at least
     one newspaper of general circulation in the
     Borrower’s country and, in addition, in at least
     one of the following forms:

            (i)     a notice in the United Nations
                    publication, Development Business;
                    or

            (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper,
                    periodical or technical journal of
                    wide international circulation; or

            (iii)   a notice to local representatives of
                    countries and territories referred
                    to in the Guidelines, that are
                    potential suppliers of the goods
                    required."

     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph
2.21 of the Guidelines:

     "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
     require the bidder to state the bid price in a
     single currency widely used in international trade
     and specified in the bidding documents."

     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted

2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $3,000,000 each shall be awarded:

    (a)  by purchasers subject to the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on
the basis of such procedures, provided that such
procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank;

    (b)  by other purchasers, in accordance with
established commercial practice, provided that such
contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at
least two countries, except where direct contracting is
permitted under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a

description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

4.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.   The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure.

                      SCHEDULE 4

        Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
            of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.   That the Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to
the Bank, in implementing the SOE Divestment and
Rationalization Program, including specifically the
following:

     (a)  completing the liquidation of NHMC, SNC and
NSR; and

    (b) taking all steps necessary or appropriate to
prepare and sale, wholly or partially, or otherwise
divest, at least the selected SOEs.

2.   That the Borrower has adopted a plan of action for
WASA, including a timetable for implementation,
satisfactory to the Bank, and has begun implementation in
accordance with such time table, in order to:

    (a)  improve financial self-sufficiency and
management, including a phased reduction of transfers
from the Borrower, measured by targets including,  inter
alia, working ratio and receivables;  and for such
purposes: (i) to review the tariff levels and structures
and propose any necessary changes; and (ii) to propose a
plan to achieve, inter alia, a working ratio of not less
than 1.05 by the end of 1991 and 0.95 by the end of 1993,
and a reduction of arrears in receivables to six (6)
months or less by the end of 1991 and four (4) months or
less by the end of 1993;

    (b)  improve administrative efficiency and for such
purpose to introduce, inter alia, appropriate accounting,
billing and collection systems; and

    (c)  improve operational efficiency measured by
targets including, inter alia, number of customers per
employee, share of salaries in operating expenditures,
extent of metered connections and maintenance levels, and
for such purposes to formulate a program: (i) to install
meters for large consumers, including large industrial
users; and (ii) to reduce the number of employees per
1000 water connections to less than 21 by the end of
1991.

3.   That the Borrower has carried out a management and
operational audit of TTEC, satisfactory to the Bank, and
has adopted a plan of action for TTEC, including a
timetable for implementation, satisfactory to the Bank
to:

(a)  improve financial self-sufficiency and
management measured by targets including, inter alia,
rate of return, net internal cash generation, debt
limitation, debt service coverage and receivables;

     (b)  improve administrative efficiency and for such
purpose to adopt, inter alia, appropriate accounting,
billing and collection systems;

     (c)  improve operational efficiency measured by
targets including, inter alia, number of customers per
employee, share of salaries in operating expenditures,
technical losses and maintenance levels; and

    (d)  improve the system of investment programming
using proper appraisal principles to ensure that
resources are economically allocated and that financial
viability is achieved, and to achieve a sound balance
between generation, transmission and distribution.

4.   That the Borrower has adopted measures, including
best efforts to obtain tariff adjustments, in order to
achieve a break even position for TTEC in 1990, and has
achieved for TTEC a ratio of customers per employee of
not less than 99.

5.   That the Borrower and its agencies have liquidated
their arrears to WASA and TTEC and all their account
balances in respect of WASA and TTEC have been made
current; and that the Borrower has achieved for TTEC a
reduction in non-governmental account balances (including
those of the SOEs) to 60 days or less.

6.   That the Borrower has converted its outstanding
loans and advances to TTEC into capital funds thereby
relieving TTEC of any obligation to repay such loans and
advances or to pay any interest thereon.

7.   That the Borrower has adopted the following measures
with respect to the process for formulating, implementing
and monitoring the PSIP:

    (a)  prepared and adopted a rolled-over PSIP covering
the three year period from Fiscal Year 1990 through
Fiscal Year 1992 satisfactory in size, composition and
sectoral balance, and supported by an appropriate
financing plan,  and has  clearly identified the core
program for Fiscal Year 1990;

     (b)  prepared and adopted to the satisfaction of the
Bank project preparation guidelines, selection criteria,
approval procedures and procedures delineating the
institutional responsibilities and the roles of the
agencies of the Borrower involved in the PSIP process,
including adopting appropriate  coordination mechanisms
and instituting a process for the formal pre-selection of
projects to be included in the PSIP; and

    (c)  strengthened, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, the system for monitoring the PSIP in order to
facilitate the review of implementation performance on a
quarterly basis.

8.   That the Borrower has:

    (a)  reduced the adjusted share of non-oil
manufacturing production covered by import licensing
requirements under the Borrower’s laws and regulations by
not less than 40 percent;

    (b)  adopted a plan of action, including a time table

for implementation, satisfactory to the Bank, to
eliminate, not later than December 31, 1991, the
requirement of import licensing for all items affecting
the rest of the non-oil manufacturing sector, except in
respect of those items for which import licensing may be
maintained because of international agreements, national
security or public health of the Borrower; and

    (c)  completed a study, satisfactory to the Bank,  on
the trade regime affecting the agricultural sector and
the Borrower’s State Trading Company (National Four
Mills) and has discussed the results thereof with the
Bank.

9.   That the Borrower has completed a study,
satisfactory to the Bank, of its trade and related
policies, including of the impact on domestic industries
of removing licensing requirements for imports and of the
practical significance of existing exemptions from import
charges on the Borrower’s competitiveness in regional
markets, and taking into account the results of such
study, has prepared a program of medium-term tariff
reform, satisfactory to the Bank, to be accomplished
through annual adjustment in import charges by no later
than December 31, 1994, such program to be based on the
following objectives:

    (a)  to achieve a level of import charges equivalent
to the rate of CET through a gradual elimination of all
other charges on imports  and of all exemptions  from the
CET except as  such exemption may be agreed to with the
Bank based on the results of such study;

     (b)  to reduce the dispersion of effective
protection rates;

     (c)  to reduce the number of tariff bands.

10.  That the Borrower has made progress,  satisfactory
to the Bank, in simplifying its import and export
procedures including introduction of the Automated System
for Customs Data, for purposes of facilitating the
development of trade.

11.  That the Borrower has reviewed alternative  systems
for providing free trade status to exporters and has
established and is operating a suitable system,
acceptable to the Bank, for providing such status  to
manufacturers predominantly engaged in export activities,
and has provided to the Bank a timetable, satisfactory to
the Bank, to provide a similar facility to cover the
exports of other manufacturers.

12.  That the Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to
the Bank, in implementing streamlined procedures for the
administration of investment incentives, and in
implementing the use of revised documentation required
for investment application.

13.  That the Borrower has taken steps, satisfactory to
the Bank, to facilitate foreign investment.

14.  That the Borrower has made progress,  satisfactory
to the Bank, in reviewing relevant petroleum legislation
and regulations affecting the concessionary and other
systems of contracts, royalty payments, and petroleum
taxation to assess the Borrower’s competitiveness for
encouraging increased private sector investment in the
petroleum industry and making proposals for improvement,
where necessary.

15.  That the RSU and the SSU are adequately staffed and

fully operational.

16.  That the Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to
the Bank, in: (a) reviewing public expenditure on the
social sectors to improve the targeting and effectiveness
of existing social programs and the provision of a
desirable minimum level of services, especially to the
poor and vulnerable groups; (b) formulating a system to
generate information to assist the Borrower in designing
programs to protect the poor and vulnerable groups on an
ongoing basis; (c) further development of the social
security system; and (d) preparing an operation to
strengthen the employment prospects of unemployed youths,
particularly in the context of small business development
and youth insertion programs.