World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3204 PH

                    Loan Agreement

       (Small Coconut Farms Development Project)

                        between

              REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                  Dated June 4, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3204 PH

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  the Borrower has contracted from the Overseas
Development Administration, an agency of the Government
of the United Kingdom (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an
amount equivalent to 1.3 million dollars to assist in
financing Part B of the Project on terms and conditions
set forth in the ODA Grant Agreement entered into between
the Borrower and the ODA; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of

this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "PCA" means the Philippine Coconut Authority of
the Borrower established under Presidential Decree No.
232 in June 1973 or any successor thereto;

     (b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (c)  "Memorandum of Agreement" means the agreement
entered into between PCA and the Department of
Agriculture of the Borrower for the purpose of assisting
PCA in carrying out its obligations under the Project,
and dated March 13, 1990, and the Supplemental Agreement
thereto dated April 4, 1990.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred twenty one million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($121,800,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July l, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six
               months or the second six months of a
               calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January l, April l, July l or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth

in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project through PCA with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

     Section 3.02. (a) In order to enable PCA to carry
out its obligations under the Project, the Borrower shall
take all necessary action to make available to PCA a
sufficient number of competent extensionists in
accordance with the memorandum of Agreement.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the generality of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i)
select Municipal Coconut Development Officers for PCA
with qualifications, experience and training as agreed
with the Bank; and (ii) make arrangements for external
recruitment of Municipal Coconut Development Officers in
the event that insufficient numbers of suitable extension
staff are made available to PCA in accordance with the
Memorandum of Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30,
1993 furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, a
financing plan for the long-term coconut development
program, and the associated activities and staffing of
PCA; (b) within six months of having received the Bank’s
comments, finalize said financing plan; and (c) as soon
as the necessary approvals have been obtained but not
later than January 1, 1995, implement the said financing
plan.

     Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project and of PCA.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such

detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records
               and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

                    Other Covenants

     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause PCA:

     (a)  to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;

     (b)  to carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and

     (c)  at all times to operate and to maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and agricultural practices.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

(a)  the formalization of a new organizational
structure satisfactory to the Bank for PCA;

     (b)  the establishment within PCA of a Central
Project Operations Unit; and

     (c)  arrangement has been made for the establishment
of at least one seed garden in manners satisfactory to
the Bank.

     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Secretary of Finance
          Department of Finance
          Manila
          Republic of the Philippines

          Cable address:           Telex:

               SECFIN                   40268 CB-CONF
               Manila

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD             248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (WUI)
                                     197688 (TRT) or
                                      82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

               By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                              Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works               3,400,000       90%

(2) Vehicles and        4,600,000       100% of foreign
    spare parts                         expenditures,
                                        100% of local
                                        expenditures
                                        (ex-factory cost)
                                        and 80% of local
                                        expenditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3) Equipment and       3,200,000       100% of foreign
    spare parts                         expenditures,
                                        100% of local
                                        expenditures (ex-
                                        factory cost) and
                                        85% of local ex-
                                        penditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(4) Consultants’        5,300,000       100%
    services,
    training,
    studies and
    extension

(5) Research              300,000       100%

(6) Copra driers        4,400,000       90%

(7) Farm inputs        80,900,000       90%

(8) Incremental
    operating
    cost

   (a)                  2,000,000       60%

   (b)                  2,100,000       45%

   (c)                  1,700,000       30%

   (d)                  1,800,000       25%

(9) Unallocated        12,100,000

TOTAL          121,800,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and

     (c)  the term "incremental operating costs" means
expenditures for incremental staff salaries and benefits,
travel allowances, office expenses and vehicle
maintenance and operation.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; (b) payments in respect of Category (6) of
this Schedule for Copra driers until a satisfactory plan,
for the implementation of a pilot scheme to introduce
improved drying practices in major oil mill catchments,
has been received by the Bank; (c) expenditures under
Category (8) (b) until $2,000,000 under Category (8) (a)
is fully disbursed; (d) expenditures under Category (8)
(c) until $2,100,000 under Category (8) (b) is fully
disbursed; and (e) expenditures under Category (8) (d)
until $1,700,000 under Category (8) (c) is fully
disbursed.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are:

     (a)  to launch a program of coconut development and
productivity improvement;

     (b)  to increase the incomes of small-scale coconut
farmers by improving coconut yields and copra quality;
and

     (c)  to boost earnings by supply of higher quality
copra for processing and the export market.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Coconut Farm Development

(1)  Establishment of seed gardens and nurseries to
     produce high yielding hybrid coconut seedlings
     sufficient, when full production is achieved, to
     sustain a replanting program of about 50,000
     ha/year.

(2)  Replanting of over-aged palms with high-yielding
     hybrid coconut seedlings on about 16,400 ha, and
     replanting of palms damaged by typhoons and other
     natural disasters with selected tall seedlings on
     about 8,600 ha.

(3)  Provision of inputs and technical assistance to
     support annual intercropping during the Project’s

first three years of replanting.

(4)  Provision of inputs to rehabilitate middle-aged
     palms on 348,000 ha, and to support the development
     of young palms planted on about 50,000 ha under
     previous PCA development schemes.

Part B:   Copra Quality Improvement

(1)  Equipping of an existing laboratory in Manila for
     aflatoxin assey, and establishment of a second
     regional copra quality control laboratory in Cebu.

(2)  Support for a pilot effort to introduce hot-air
     copra driers to smallholders in 2-3 major mill
     catchment areas.

(3)  Provision of technical assistance and training.

Part C:   Institutional Strengthening of PCA

(1)  Expansion of central, regional and provincial PCA
     office staff; replacement vehicles; office,
     communications and other minor equipment;
     construction and equipping of three new regional
     offices and renovation of three existing regional
     offices; support for incremental operating
     expenditures; technical assistance, training and
     research studies.

(2)  Completion of facilities for PCA’s Coconut
     Extension Training Center; training of staff
     trainers and extension workers; and supporting
     materials for training and extension activities.

(3)  Upgrading of PCA’s coconut research program through
     agronomic consultancy services, vehicles equipment
     and materials for PCA’s Research and Development
     Branch and three regional research centers and
     support for contract research on coconut processing
     and end uses.

                        *  *  *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 1996                        2,215,000.00
July 15, 1996                           2,305,000.00
January 15, 1997                        2,395,000.00
July 15, 1997                           2,485,000.00
January 15, 1998                        2,580,000.00
July 15, 1998                           2,680,000.00
January 15, 1999                        2,785,000.00
July 15, 1999                           2,895,000.00
January 15, 2000                        3,005,000.00
July 15, 2000                           3,120,000.00
January 15, 2001                        3,245,000.00
July 15, 2001                           3,370,000.00
January 15, 2002                        3,500,000.00
July 15, 2002                           3,635,000.00
January 15, 2003                        3,775,000.00
July 15, 2003                           3,920,000.00
January 15, 2004                        4,075,000.00
July 15, 2004                           4,230,000.00

January 15, 2005                        4,395,000.00
July 15, 2005                           4,565,000.00
January 15, 2006                        4,745,000.00
July 15, 2006                           4,925,000.00
January 15, 2007                        5,120,000.00
July 15, 2007                           5,315,000.00
January 15, 2008                        5,520,000.00
July 15, 2008                           5,735,000.00
January 15, 2009                        5,960,000.00
July 15, 2009                           6,190,000.00
January 15, 2010                        6,430,000.00
July 15, 2010                           6,685,000.00

____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but                       0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but                       0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost at least the
equivalent of $200,000 or more each.

3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.l hereof, goods
manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Packages for equipment, vehicles and spare parts may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank provided that
said contracts shall not exceed $200,000 per contract and
up to an amount of $1,300,000 in the aggregate.

2.   Packages for civil works not exceeding $1,000,000
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$15,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods and
works estimated to cost at least the equivalent of
$200,000 and $1,000,000, respectively, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix l to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program

     The Borrower shall cause PCA to:

1.   Not later than March 31, 1991, furnish evidence to
the Bank that it had obtained the use of a suitable seed
garden site for a period of at least 20 years.

2.   Enter into contracts for hybrid seed production with
agricultural enterprises with adequate financial,
technical and managerial resources as agreed with the
Bank.

3.   Annually furnish for Bank’s approval the nursery
development plan of PCA for the following year, with
specific reference to the need for any field nurseries
and the circumstances justifying their use.

4.   Include in its annual capital budget adequate funds
to finance Project’s activities, including the
non-incremental costs, and that such funds will be
released for use in a timely manner.

5.   Timely fill the posts of the heads of PCA’s Central
Project Operations Unit and Operation and Planning
Department of the Field Operation Branch with incumbents
with training and experience as agreed with the Bank.

6.   Ensure that farmers participating in the Project
will be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with
the Bank.

7.   Ensure that benefits under the Project will be
limited to either replanting 1 ha or rehabilitation of 3
ha or nutrient support of 4 ha per small holder.

8.   Not later than June 30 of each year, furnish, to the
Bank for its review and comment, the proposed annual
Project’s area coverage targets and related plans and
budget for the succeeding year.

9.   Not later than September 30, 1990, commence the
implementation of a new organizational structure agreed
with the Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 6

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures. All such deposits
               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall
               have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make

further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.