World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3177 TU

                    Loan Agreement

          (Second Agricultural Extension and
               Applied Research Project)

                        between

                  REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated March 30, 1990

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Area" means the area covered by
nineteen of the Borrower’s provinces  grouped into:  (i)
the Central Region, comprising Kirsehir, Yozgat,
Neveshir, Nigde, Aksaray and Kayseri provinces;  (ii)
the Central North Region,  comprising Amasya, Tokat,
Sivas and Erzincan provinces;  (iii) the Central
Southeastern Region, comprising Malatya, Gaziantep,
Kahramanmaras, Adiyaman and Siirt provinces; and (iv) the
Mediterranean Region, comprising Antalya, Icel, Adana and
Hatay provinces;

(b)  "MAFRA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs;

     (c)  "MPWR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public
Works and Resettlement;

     (d)  "GDPI" means MAFRA’s General Directorate of
Projects and Implementation;

     (e)  "GDRS"  means MAFRA’s General Directorate of
Rural Services;

     (f)  "GDPC" means MAFRA’s General Directorate of
Protection and Control;

     (g)  "GDOS" means MAFRA’s General Directorate of
Organization and Support;

     (h)  "EFPD" means GDPI’s Externally Financed
Projects Department;

     (i)  "PDA" means the Provincial Director of
Agriculture;

     (j)  "PAD" means the Provincial Agricultural
Directorate;

     (k)  "FTE" means PAD’s Farmer Training and Extension
Section;

     (l)  "PPS" means PAD’s Plant Protection Section;

     (m)  "AHS" means PAD’s Animal Health Section;

     (n)  "PSS" means PAD’s Projects and Statistics
Section;

     (o)  "CD" means the County Agricultural Director;

     (p)  "AES" means the County Agricultural  Extension
Supervisor;

     (q)  "CCC" means the Central Coordinating Committee
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;

     (r)  "RCC" means each or any of the Regional
Coordinating Committees to be established pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

     (s)  "VGT" means a Village Group Technician;

     (t)  "VGTC" means a Village Group Technician Center;

     (u)  "SMS" means a Subject Matter Specialist;

     (v)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (w)  "fiscal year" means the period January l
through December 31.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.0l.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of sixty-three million dollars ($63,000,000),

being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1997 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (l/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section

          (i)       "Interest Period" means a six-month
                    period ending on the date
                    immediately preceding each date
                    specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the
                    Interest Period in which this
                    Agreement is signed.

          (ii)      "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means
                    the cost, as reasonably determined
                    by the Bank and expressed as a
                    percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                    drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                    excluding such borrowings or
                    portions thereof as the Bank has
                    allocated to fund:  (A)  the Bank’s
                    investments; and (B) loans which may
                    be made by the Bank after July l,
                    1989 bearing interest rates
                    determined otherwise than as
                    provided in paragraph (a) of this
                    Section.

(iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
          each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the
          preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (l/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest Period."

               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
          end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
          Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."

               "(c)  (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a
          three-month period commencing on January l,
          April l, July l or October l in a calendar
          year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on June l and December l in each
year.

     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.0l. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project through MAFRA with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

     Section 4.0l. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)       have the records and accounts
                    referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                    Section, including those for the
                    Special Account, for each fiscal
                    year audited, in accordance with
                    appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to
                    the Bank;

          (ii)      furnish to the Bank as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later
                    than nine months after the end of
                    each such year, the report of such
                    audit by said auditors, of such
                    scope and in such detail as the Bank
                    shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)       maintain or cause to be maintained,
                    in accordance with paragraph (a)  of
                    this Section, records and accounts
                    reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii)      retain, until at least one year
                    after the Bank has received the
                    audit report for the fiscal year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                    receipts and other documents)
                    evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv)      ensure that such records and
                    accounts are included in the annual
                    audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                    of this Section and that the report
                    of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to
                    whether the statements of
                    expenditure submitted during such
                    fiscal year, together with the
                    procedures and internal controls
                    involved in their preparation, can
                    be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.

(d)  Without limitation to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, within two months
after the end of each semester, a detailed statement in
respect of the expenditures referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section for such semester.

                       ARTICLE V

                      Termination

     Section 5.0l.  The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.0l.  The Undersecretary of the Treasury
and Foreign Trade of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section ll.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

     Basbakanlik
     Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
     Mustesarligi
     Bakanliklar - Ankara

     Cable address:      Telex:

     MALIYE HAZINE       821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                         821-42689 (ANK-TR)

     For the Bank:

     International Bank for
       Reconstruction and Development
     1818 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     United States of America

     Cable address:      Telex:

          INTBAFRAD           440098 (ITT),
          Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA) or
                               64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

               By /s/ Zalih Seleklar

                              Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Koepp

                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts  of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                   Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated             % of
                    (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category     Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed

(l)  Civil works    19,500,000          25%

(2)  Vehicles,      13,600,000          100% of foreign
     equipment and                      expenditures,
     scientific books                   100% of local
     and periodicals                    expenditures
                                        (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 80%
                                        of local ex-
                                        penditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3)  Consultants’   14,500,000          100%
     services and
     overseas
     training

(4)  Incremental     9,900,000          66% until
     operating costs                    $4.7 million
                                        equivalent has
                                        been disbursed
                                        from this Cate-
                                        gory, 50%
                                        thereafter and
                                        until $8.2
                                        million equi-
                                        valent has
                                        been disbursed
                                        from this Cate-
                                        gory, and 33%
                                        thereafter

(5)  Unallocated    5,500,000

          TOTAL     63.000.00

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means

expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and

     (c)  the term "incremental operating costs" means
the costs incurred on account of the salaries and
allowances of staff recruited, the inputs and materials
procured for purposes of field trials and demonstrations
carried out, and the operation and maintenance of
vehicles procured, under the Project, all calculated in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(a)  for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and (b) for expenditures under Categories (l)
and (2) exceeding an aggregate amount of $1,000,000
equivalent, unless and until the Borrower shall have
signed contracts with the consultants required for the
Project and to be employed pursuant to Section II (a),
(b), (c) and (d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist in
achieving sustained increases in agricultural
productivity and incomes in the Project Area through
support for the widespread adoption by farmers of
improved farming practices and, to this end, to: (a)
strengthen MAFRA’s field extension and research services,
so as to facilitate the transmission of improved,
appropriate technology from MAFRA to farmers and the flow
of feedback from such farmers to MAFRA; (b) introduce in
MAFRA’s field extension services elements designed to
meet the special needs of women engaged in agriculture;
and (c) improve animal health services as a complement to
successful field extension services carried out by MAFRA.

     The Project consists of the following parts subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Agricultural Extension

     Strengthening of MAFRA’s field extension services:

     (1)  at the village level, through: (a) employment
of additional VGTs to work on a full-time basis in
providing technical advice to farmers on a broad range of
farming activities and to receive feedback from such
farmers on newly-introduced technology; (b) employment,
on a pilot basis, of a limited number of female VGTs to
provide technical advice and training to women in
improved methods of agricultural production; (c)
construction of VGTCs in selected villages to
specifications satisfactory to the Bank; (d) provision
for VGTs of vehicles and drivers, office furniture and
supplies, demonstration materials and equipment,
including audiovisual equipment; and (e) provision of
funds to meet operating costs.

     (2)  at the county level, through: (a) appointment
of an AES, under the direction of CD, to supervise VGTs,

to organize VGTs’ training, to coordinate information
about agricultural extension activities in the county,
and to coordinate, with the Director of FTE, CD and other
provincial technical personnel, the support to be given
by SMSs to such activities; (b) provision for CD of a
vehicle and driver, and for AES of housing, a vehicle and
driver and office and audio-visual equipment for training
VGTs and farmers; and (c) provision of funds to meet
operating costs.

     (3)  at the county-group level, through: (a)
establishment of teams of SMSs, including expertise in
agricultural economics, extension methodology/training
and erosion control and reporting to the Director of FTE,
inter alia, to train VGTs on a regular
basis, to provide technical support to VGTs in the field,
to assist AESs in planning agricultural extension
activities in the counties, and to liaise with research
staff and institutes both within and outside their
provinces; (b) construction of VGT training rooms or
halls and housing for SMSs; (c) provision of vehicles and
drivers, audio-visual equipment and materials and pest
surveillance  equipment; (d) carrying out by
multi-disciplinary teams, consisting of VGTs, AESs, SMSs
and researchers    from the relevant research institutes,
of diagnostic studies of the main farming systems with a
view to  identifying the appropriate solutions, either
tested and available or to be developed through research,
to the most pressing productivity problems of such
systems; (e) implementation of integrated pest
management procedures under the direction of VGTs and SMS
teams and (f) provision of funds to meet operating costs.

     (4)  at the provincial level, through: (a) provision
of vehicles and drivers and small personal computers for
FTEs and for PAD; (b) provision of additional staff for
FTEs; (c) aggregation of the county-group diagnostic
studies to be carried out under Part A.3 (d) of the
Project; (d) establishment, on a pilot basis of mobile
animal health units, including provision of vans and
drivers, equipment and supplies; (e) provision of
scientific books and periodicals for further
distribution, as necessary, for the purposes of Part A of
the Project; and (f) provision of funds to meet operating
costs.

     (5)  at the national level, through: (a)  provision
of vehicles and drivers and equipment for MAFRA staff
involved in the carrying out of the Project; and (b)
provision of funds to meet operating costs.

Part B:   Applied Research

1.   Strengthening of seven research institutes serving
the Project Area (the Cukurova Agricultural Research
Institute, Adana; the Animal Diseases Research
Institute, Adana; the Plant Protection Research
Institute, Ankara; the Horticultural Research Institute,
Erzincan; the Livestock Central Research Institute,
Konya; the Fruit Research Institute,  Malatya; and the
Cotton Research Institute, Nazilli/Aydin) so as to enable
them to carry out research planning, to effectively train
agricultural extension staff, to participate in
diagnostic studies, to undertake on-farm trials for
testing new farm technology and to integrate research
findings into recommendations for appropriate technology
for different categories of farmers, through: (a)
construction of additional and/or renovation of existing
training facilities; (b) provision of vehicles and
drivers, equipment (including audiovisual equipment),
scientific books and periodicals, and funds for on-farm
research and to meet vehicle and equipment operating and

maintenance costs; (c) provision of additional technical
staff; and (d) establishment in each institute of a
Research Extension Liaison Department, including
provision of additional staff and funds to meet operating
costs for this purpose.

2.   Strengthening of an additional seven research
institutes serving the Project Area (the Ataturk Central
Research Institute for Horticulture, Yalova; the Animal
Diseases Research Institute, Etlik/Ankara; the Field
Crops Central Research Institute, Ankara; the
Southeastern Anatolia Agricultural Research Institute,
Diyarbakir; the Plant Protection Research Institute,
Adana, the Soil and Water Research Institute, Ankara; and
the Rural Services Research Institute, Sanliurfa) so as
to enable them, as a backstop for the research institutes
covered under Part B.l of the Project, to provide
additional training for agricultural extension staff and
to make recommendations for appropriate farm technology,
through: (a) minor renovation of existing training
facilities; and (b) provision of vehicles and drivers,
and funds to meet operating costs arising from
agricultural extension training activities and vehicle
operation and maintenance.

Part C:   Monitoring and Evaluation

1.   Strengthening of GDPI’s Monitoring and Evaluation
Divisions through provision of vehicles and drivers,
computer software, additional staff and funds for
financing agricultural case studies and to meet operating
costs.

2.   Establishment and operation of a management
information system, including provision of equipment.

Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training

1.   Carrying out of regular fortnightly or monthly
training sessions for VGTs and workshops for SMSs (joined
occasionally by VGTs) to be held at least once every two
months.

2.   Carrying out of an overseas training program
acceptable to the Bank for selected staff involved in
extension, research and monitoring and evaluation
activities under Parts A, B and C of the Project and
selected farmers from the Project Area.

3.   Carrying out of a supplemental local in-service
training program (including orientation sessions) for
staff participating in extension, research and monitoring
and evaluation activities under Parts A, B and C of the
Project and a local training program for selected farmers
from the Project Area.

4.   Preparation of proposals for future agricultural
extension and research programs.

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1996.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December l
     beginning December l, l995
     through June l, 2007          2,625,000

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment            Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years          0.18
before maturity

More than three years but          0.35
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but            0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity

More than 11 years but not         0.88
more than 15 years before
maturity

More than 15 years before          1.00
maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more each.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.l hereof, goods
manufactured in Turkey may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding,  advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   Goods, other than vehicles, estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

3.   Books and periodicals may be purchased directly from
the publishers or authorized distributors on the basis of
negotiated contracts.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

l.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix l to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in: (a) designing,
conducting and supervising the overall training program
for Project staff, including placement and administration
of long- and short-term trainees in overseas
institutions; (b) designing and carrying out diagnostic
studies; (c) implementing a pilot women farmers
agricultural extension and research program;  (d)
strengthening project monitoring and evaluation
arrangements;  e) carrying out agricultural case studies;

and (f) preparing future agricultural extension and
research programs, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program

A.   Project Implementation and Coordination

1.   At the central level, MAFRA shall carry out the
Project through GDPI, except for: (a) construction of
VGTCs, VGT training facilities and housing for AESs and
SMSs under Part A of the Project, which shall be carried
out through GDRS and MPWR, acting in collaboration with
GDPI;  (b) establishment of mobile animal health units
under Part A.4 (d) of the Project, which shall be carried
out through GDPC; (c)  strengthening of veterinary and
plant protection and soil and water research institutes
under Part B of the Project, which shall be carried out
through GDPC and GDRS, respectively; and (d) training of
extension staff under Part D of the Project, which shall
be coordinated jointly through GDPI and GDOS.  GDPI shall
also be responsible, through EFPD and its other
departments,  for coordinating the input of GDPC, GDRS
and GDOS and of other departments and agencies of MAFRA
to the Project, for procuring vehicles and equipment for
the Project, for overseeing the management and
implementation of the Project at the provincial level,
and for monitoring and evaluating all Project activities.

2.   At the central level, MAFRA shall coordinate all
Project activities through CCC, which was established
under the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
Project (Loan No. 2405-TU) and which shall be retained
for this purpose with its existing composition and terms
of reference.

3.   At the provincial level, MAFRA shall carry out the
Project through PADS. Each PDA shall be the Project
Manager in his province and shall be assisted by the
Technical Sections of his PAD.  In particular, FTE shall
plan, program and coordinate all extension activities in
the province and shall supervise and
direct the county-group SMS teams established under the
Project; PPS and AHS shall assist extension staff in
their respective areas of expertise;  and PSS shall
assist in monitoring of Project, including extension,
activities.  The designated research institutes shall
regularly train SMSs, coordinate on-farm research
trials and provide solutions to farmers’ productivity
problems as identified through diagnostic studies carried
out under the Project and feedback from extension staff.
SMSs shall regularly train and provide technical support
to VGTs, who shall, in turn, have direct contact with
farmers. VGTs shall be supervised by AES at the
county-level.

4.   At the Provincial level, MAFRA shall coordinate all
Project activities through RCCs.  For each Region in the
Project Area, an RCC shall be established to cover the
provinces included in the Project, not later than October
31, 1990.  Each RCC shall be chaired by the General
Director of GDPI or his deputy and shall include as

members, from the provinces, the concerned PDAs, the
concerned Directors of FTE and PSS and the Directors of
the relevant research institutes, and from the center,
the concerned Directors from MAFRA.  Each RCC shall meet
at least once a year to review Project implementation and
to discuss technical issues and policy matters with a
view, inter alia, to removing constraints, increasing
coordination among the Project agencies and approving an
implementation program for the concerned provinces for
the coming year.

B.   Supervision of Construction

5.   For the purposes of carrying out its responsibility
for construction of VGTCs, VGT training facilities and
staff housing under Part A of the Project, GDRS shall:

     (a)  not later than October 31, 1990, appoint a
full-time architect-engineer to review progress and to
regularly visit a representative selection of Project
sites throughout the construction season each year so as
to ensure quality control; and

     (b)  arrange for visits by its staff to supervise
all Project sites at least twice every month from its
regional or provincial offices and at least three times
during the construction season each year from its
headquarters in Ankara and prepare reports on the
findings resulting from such visits.

C.   Project Review

6.   The Borrower shall, through GDPI and in consultation
with the Bank, carry out:  (a) an annual review of the
Project, not later than June 30 in each of the years 1991
and 1992; and (b) a mid-term review of the Project, not
later than December 31, 1993, all in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  GDPI shall,
after each such review, make such adjustments in the
organization and operation of the Project as may be
appropriate in light of the conclusions of the review.

D.   Progress Reports

7.   Pursuant to Section 9.07 of the GeneraI Conditions,
GDPI shall, not later than sixty days after the end of
each semester, beginning with the semester ending
December 31, 1990, furnish to the Bank progress reports
on the Project in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 6

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the

Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals  of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.  All  such
               deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
               from the Loan Account under the
               respective eligible Categories, and in
               the respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal  the equivalent

of $8,000,000 twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,  if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.