World Bank Document

CONFORMED  COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3203 KO

                          Loan Agreement

      (Universities Science and Technology Research Project)

                              between

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 10, 1990

     LOAN NUMBER 3203 KO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 10, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower,  having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the tine mains
of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a private university out of the proceeds of the Loan
for carrying out the Project; and

      (b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five Million
dollars ($45,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be Withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or,  if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2  to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in the Korea
Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into,  and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
           Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (l/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

      (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period riding

on the date immediately preceding each date
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            beginning with the Interest Period in which this
            Agreement is signed.

      (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
            reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
            percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
            the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
            borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
            to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
            may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
            interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
            paragraph (a) of this Section.

      (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second
            six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices,  and shall provide, promptly
as needed,  the funds,  facilities,  services and other resources
required for the Project.

     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall: (i) select the universities in accordance with
a criteria acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) allocate the funds to
the selected universities  in accordance with the Guidelines
approved by the Bank.

Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall:  (i) enter into Sub-loans with the private
universities on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) make the funds available to the public universities as a grant.

                            ARTICLE IV

                       Particular Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)  The Borrower shall:

           (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each financial year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year certified copies of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning such records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during  such  fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MOF                           K23243
                  Kwachon, Korea

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     82987 (FTCC)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.

                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                  By /s/ Sohn Myung Hyun
                                    Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(l) Equipment                 40,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Unallocated                4,500,000

         TOTAL                45,OOO,OOO

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                         SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist selected
universities in broadening and deepening their basic research
programs in the priority fields of science and technology and to
strengthen science teacher education programs.

    The Project consists of the following, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

     The carrying out of basic research in selected universities,
including provision of specialized equipment,  associated civil
works and consumable materials.

                              * * *

The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal                      (expressed in dollars)

Date Payment Due
    On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning November 15, 1995
    through May 15, 2005                        2,250,000

*    The figures  in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepared shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable to
                              the balance outstanding on the Loan
                              on the day of prepayment multiplied
                              by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
    before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity

More than 13 years before                       1.00
    maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in Korea may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

      Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not

to exceed the equivalent of $6,800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines,  in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

    (a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank,  the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications,
other bidding and draft contract documents for the supply goods.

     (b)  With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account,  said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.

            (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                        the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                        requests for deposits  into  the  Special

Account at  such intervals as the Bank
                        shall specify.

            (ii)        Prior to or at the time of each such
                        request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                        Bank the documents and other evidence
                        required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                        Schedule for the payment or payments  in
                        respect of which replenishment is
                        requested. On the basis of each such
                        request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                        Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                        and deposit into the Special Account such
                        amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                        and as shall have been shown by said
                        documents and other evidence to have been
                        made out of the Special Account for
                        eligible expenditures. All such deposits
                        shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
                        Loan Account under the respective eligible
                        Category, and in the respective equivalent
                        amounts, as shall have been justified by
                        said documents and other evidence.

4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall,  at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3  of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Category for the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the  Special Account:  (i) was made for a expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule;  or  (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures,  the Borrower

shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.