World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3241 PAK

              (Transport Sector Project)

                        between

             ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                  Dated July 27, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3241 PAK

                    LOAN AGREEMENT§

     AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1990, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "PR" means Pakistan Railways, a department of
the Borrower’s Ministry of Railways;

     (b)  "NHB" means the National Highway Board, an
agency subordinated to the Borrower’s Ministry of
Communication;

     (c)  "CIMP" means the core investment and
maintenance program for the Borrower’s highways and
railways sub-sectors for the fiscal years 1990/91 through
1992/93;

     (d)  "Program" means the PR’s Investment and
Maintenance Program for the fiscal years 1990/91 through
1996/97;

     (e)  "Rupee" means the currency of the Borrower;

     (f)  "Committee" means the Committee to be
established by the Borrower under the Chairmanship of its
Planning Commission to monitor and to review the status
of Project implementation;

     (g)  "PSOs" means the public service obligations for
transport and other social services, which PR performs,
without adequate costing arrangements, at the direction
of the Borrower;

     (h)  "NHB Special Account" and "PR Special Account"
mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and

     (i)  "Special Accounts" means the NHB Special
Account and the PR Special Account.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent   to the
amount of one hundred eighty-four million dollars
($184,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of,

respectively, Part B and Part C of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars special deposit accounts in the
National Bank of Pakistan to be designated, respectively,
as the NHB Special Account and the PR Special Account, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the NHB
Special Account and PR Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings

determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out Part A of the Project through its Planning
Commission, Ministry of Communications and Ministry of
Finance, Part B of the Project through NHB and Part C of
the Project through PR, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial,
engineering, managerial and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

     Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make available
to NHB, in the form of budgetary allocations, the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time for Part B of the Project under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

     (b)  For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to PR the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time for Part
C of the Project under Category (2) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in accordance with
the Borrower’s current budgetary and accounting
arrangements for financing capital investments or
replacement of assets by PR.

     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall enable PR to
acquire, in a timely manner, the foreign exchange
required for the procurement of spare parts needed for
the proper operation and maintenance of its locomotives.
Such requirements shall be reviewed in the context of the
annual review referred to in Part A (2) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of
PR and NHB to maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.

     (b)  The Borrower shall cause each of PR and NHB to:

          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) and the records and accounts
               for its Special Account for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               with respect to NHB and nine months with
               respect to PR, after the end of each such
               year: (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for such year as so
               audited, and (B) the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning such records,
               accounts and financial statements and the
               audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
each of PR and NHB to:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal

controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PR to
maintain, as of the beginning of the fiscal year 1991/92,
separate financial accounts for each of its different
traffic streams, manufacturing units and PSOs.

     Section 4.03. The Borrower, the Bank and PR shall
review, during the month of March in each year, the
levels of PR’s tariffs with a view to agreeing on the
annual adjustments required to such tariffs so as to
ensure: (a) that the rate of such adjustments shall be
above the inflation rate in Pakistan, as such inflation
rate is projected in the Consumer Price Index of
Pakistan; (b) that the operating deficits of PR shall be
progressively reduced; and (c) that PR shall be able,
starting not later than the fiscal year 1994/95, to
finance a reasoanble portion of its capital expenditures.

                       ARTICLE V

                    Other Covenants

     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause PR:

     (a)  to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;

     (b)  to carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering  practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and

     (c)  at all times to operate and to maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices.

     Section 5.02. Until the completion of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that (a) any material changes
in the components of the Program, or (b) increases in
expenditures under the Program by more than the
equivalent of $5,000,000 above current expenditures
estimates for any given fiscal year, shall be made only
after consultation with the Bank.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  the PC-1 documents with respect to the Project
have been approved by the competent authorities of the
Borrower;

     (b)  the actions referred to in Part (C) (1) (i) and
C (2) (i) (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been
taken;

     (c)  PR has prepared bidding documents satisfactory
to the Bank for the procurement of (a) equipment
estimated to cost about $25,000,000 equivalent under Part

C (2) (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project, and (b) the
equipment required under Part C (2) (v) of the Project;
and

     (d)  the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory
to the Bank, demonstrating that the funds needed from the
Borrower’s own resources for the carrying out of the
Project during the fiscal year 1990/91 have been
allocated.

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

      Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section
Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan

          Cable address:           Telex:

               ECONOMIC              ECDIV
634
               Islamabad

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD             197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.      248423 (RCA),
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                      82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

               By /s/ M. Afzal
                              Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ W. A. Waphenhans
                                Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                     Amount of the
                     Loan Allocated         % of
                     (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Part B of the
    Project:

   (a) Works for       52,000,000       70%
       Part B
       (2) (a)

   (b) Works for       15,000,000       60% of expendi-
       Part B                           tures incurred
       (2) (b)                          prior to June 30,
                                        1991, 40% of ex-
                                        penditures
                                        incurred after
                                        that date but prior
                                        to June 30, 1992
                                        and 20% for ex-
                                        penditures
                                        incurred there-
                                        after

   (c) Technical        5,500,000       100%
       services and
       training

   (d) Equipment and     200,000        100% of foreign
       supplies                         expenditures,
                                        100% of local
                                        expenditures
                                        (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 90%
                                        of local expen-
                                        ditures for other
                                        items procured
                                        locally

   (e) Unallocated      4,800,000

(2) Part C of
    the Project:

   (a) Equipment       90,000,000       100% of foreign
       spare parts                      expenditures

   (b) Consultants’     7,300,000       100%
       services and
       training

(c) office tech-     1,000,000       100% of foreign
       nology equip-                    expenditures,
       ment                             100% of local
                                        expenditures
                                        (ex-factory cost)
                                        and 90% of local
                                        expenditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

   (d) Unallocated        6,700,000

(3) Part A of the
    Project:

   (a) Technical         1,300,000      100%
       services

   (b) Equipment           200,000      100% of foreign
                                        expenditures, 100%
                                        of local expendi-
                                        tures (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 90% of
                                        local expenditures
                                        for other items
                                        procured locally
                        ___________

       TOTAL            184,000,000
                        ===========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of (a) payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be
made in respect of Category (1) and $5,000,000 in respect
of Category (2) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1990,
and (b) contracts to be financed under Category (1) (a)
and (1) (b) and awarded in fiscal year 1991/92 and in any
fiscal year thereafter unless the Borrower shall have
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank that the
funds required to carry out Part B (2) of the Project,
during any such fiscal year, have been provided.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower in the carrying out of measures for (a)
reforming the transport sector’s policies and
institutions; (b) restructuring NHB and the carrying out
of its priority investment and maintenance operations;
and (c) restructuring PR, improving its organization and
operating practices and the carrying out of its priority
investment and maintenance operations.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Sectoral Development

     The carrying out of measures, including those set
forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to
increase the efficiency and improve the management of the
Borrower’s transport sector.

Part B:   Highway

1.   The carrying out of measures to improve the
organization, and operating policies and procedures of
NHB, including the provision of related equipment,
training and technical assistance.

2.   The carrying out by NHB of (a) a maintenance program
for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of sections of
the national highway, totalling about 400 km; and (b) a
resurfacing and strengthening program for sections of the
national highway totalling about 400 km.

Part C:   Railways

1.   The carrying out of measures to improve the
organization, management and operating practices and
procedures of PR, including the installation of
management and administrative information systems and the
provision of training and technical assistance.

2.   The provision for PR of (i) spare parts for
recommissioning of about 46 locomotives, (ii) tools and
equipment to repair/ replace unit exchange system
components, (iii) about 270 new traction motors and
equipment to rehabilitate about 660 existing traction
motors, (iv) communications equipment, including VHF and
UHF equipment, and (v) roller bearings for about 15,000
wagons.

                     *     *     *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1995                        3,350,000
May 1, 1996                             3,480,000
November 1, 1996                        3,615,000
May 1, 1997                             3,755,000
November 1, 1997                        3,900,000
May 1, 1998                             4,050,000
November 1, 1998                        4,210,000
May 1, 1999                             4,370,000
November 1, 1999                        4,540,000
May 1, 2000                             4,715,000
November 1, 2000                        4,900,000
May 1, 2001                             5,090,000
November 1, 2001                        5,285,000
May 1, 2002                             5,490,000
November 1, 2002                        5,705,000
May 1, 2003                             5,925,000
November 1, 2003                        6,155,000

May 1, 2004                             6,395,000
November 1, 2004                        6,640,000
May 1, 2005                             6,900,000
November 1, 2005                        7,165,000
May 1, 2006                             7,445,000
November 1, 2006                        7,730,000
May 1, 2007                             8,030,000
November 1, 2007                        8,340,000
May 1, 2008                             8,665,000
November 1, 2008                        9,000,000
May 1, 2009                             9,350,000
November 1, 2009                        9,715,000
May 1, 2010                            10,090,000

_____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                                   The interest rate
                              (ex  pressed  as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                 0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not          0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not         0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before         1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with

procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

2.   Contracts for the procurement of equipment required
for the rehabilitation of traction motors under Part C
(2) (iii) of the Project shall include provisions
requiring the suppliers thereof to provide technical
services to PR in the reconditioning of such traction
motors.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Works under Part B of the Project may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to the first four contracts for
works and each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes

of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program

     The Borrower shall ensure the implementation of the
following measures towards achieving the objectives of
the Project and carrying out the activities and measures
included in it:

(A)  Sectoral Policies and Measures:

(1)  The Borrower shall establish the Committee by
October 31, 1990.

(2)  Annual Review: The Borrower shall review annually
with the Bank, not later than March 31 in each year,
starting in the year 1991, the status of implementation
of the Project and the CIMP and the funding requirements
thereof during the succeeding fiscal year.

(3)  Resource Mobilization: The Borrower shall (a)
continue its current practice of transferring to
consumers all increases in petroleum products, and (b)
cause NHB to prepare annually and furnish to the
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, financial proposals which
shall include recommendations designed to enhance
mobilization of resources from road user charges.

(4)  Trade Logistics: The Borrower shall: (i) complete by
September 30, 1991, studies to develop programs for
improving the handling, storage and transport of bulk
commodities, determine the future role of the National
Logistics Cell of the Borrower, and determine the
feasibility of establishing bulk foodgrain and fertilizer
facilities at Port Qasim; (ii) discuss the findings and
recommendations of such studies with the Bank, and
prepare on the basis thereof an action plan for the
implementation of such recommendations, and begin to
implement the approved action plan by December 31, 1991;
and (iii) establish, by December 31, 1990, a committee
for simplification of international trade procedures.

(5)  Sector Planning: The Borrower shall: (i) carry out,
through its Management Services Division, by December 31,
1991, a study of measures to strengthen the capacity for
project planning and policy formulation of the various
entities responsible for the transport sector; and (ii)
prepare and review with the Bank an action plan for
implementing the recommendations of such study by June
30, 1992.

(6)  Environmental Aspects: The Borrower shall: (i)
design, through its Environment and Urban Affairs
Division, by December 31, 1991, measures for the purpose
of improving safety in the transport of hazardous cargoes
and to reduce automotive pollution; and (ii) prepare, by
June 30, 1992, a plan satisfactory to the Bank, including

a time-schedule, for the implementation of such measures,
and thereafter carry out such action plan.

(7)  Road Transport Industry: The Borrower shall: (i)
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comment, by
December 31, 1991, an action plan for the development of
its trucking industry, including measures to permit the
introduction of efficient, high capacity trucks; and (ii)
proceed with the implementation of such action plan by
June 30, 1992, taking into account the Bank’s comments
thereon.

(B)  Institutional Development of NHB:

     The Borrower shall reorganize NHB in accordance with
principles agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank,
and which shall be formally approved by the Borrower not
later than September 30, 1990.

(C)  Institutional Development of PR:

     The Borrower shall prepare and implement an action
plan satisfactory to the Bank for reorganizing and
improving the operating procedures, management and
finance of PR, which shall include the following:

(1)  Reorganization, finance and management of PR:

         (i)   the limitation of the functions of PR’s
               Board to the policy and review aspects of
               its operations and the assignment of the
               executive responsibility for the
               operation of PR to the General Manager in
               PR’s Headquarters in Lahore;

        (ii)   the conversion by July 1, 1991, of PR’s
               manufacturing units into corporate
               entities;

       (iii)   the separation, starting in the fiscal
               year 1991/92, of PR’s budget from the
               Borrower’s general budget, and the annual
               preparation for PR of a revised business
               plan;

        (iv)   the implementation of measures whereby
               the Borrower shall assume the financial
               burden of the public service obligations
               of PR (PSOs). The items included as PSOs
               shall be identified by March 31, 1991,
               and the arrangements for costing against
               such items shall be reviewed annually, in
               consultation with the Bank, by March 31
               of each year;

         (v)   the implementation by PR, of a plan,
               satisfactory to the Bank, for attrition
               of its surplus staff;

        (vi)   the separation, starting in July 1991, of
               the financial accounts of PR from those
               of its manufacturing units;

       (vii)   the streamlining of procedures for
               reporting to PR’s General Manager; and

      (viii)   the introduction by PR, during the fiscal
               year 1990/91, of improvements to its
               staff assignment and promotion practices.

(2)  Development of PR’s commercial aspects, staffing and
operation capacity:

(i)   (a) the establishment of a Business
               Department within PR and the appointment
               of its manager (Additional General
               Manager, Business), and (b) the
               appointment, by October 31, 1990, of
               managers for corporate planning,
               commercial passengers, local passengers,
               freight, containers, terminal and support
               divisions;

        (ii)   the appointment by October 31, 1990, of
               advisors for the Business Department
               referred to in (i) above;

       (iii)   the appointment, by October 31, 1990, of
               (a) a group within PR to supervise the
               implementation of PR’s operational
               improvement program, and (b) under terms
               of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of
               an adviser to assist in the performance
               by such group of its responsibilities;

        (iv)   (a) the appointment by October 31, 1990,
               under terms of reference satisfactory to
               the Bank, of management advisors for PR,
               and (b) starting in October 1990, on-the-
               job training for PR’s managers designed
               to introduce commercial orientation in
               PR’s management methods and procedures;

         (v)   the development, starting in December
               1990, with the assistance of advisers, of
               new training courses (which shall include
               a component on the commercial aspects of
               railways operations) for PR’s staff,
               including senior managers;

        (vi)   the equipping of PR’s departments,
               particularly the Business Department and
               the Operation Improvement Group, with
               modern office machinery;

       (vii)   the development, with the assistance of
               consultants to be employed by October 31,
               1990, of PR’s accounting procedures so as
               to ensure, by June 1, 1992, that PR’s
               accounts shall be maintained on the basis
               of commercial accounting principles
               applicable to commercial enterprises; and

      (viii)   the preparation by PR, in conjunction
               with the concerned agencies of the
               Borrower, of a program satisfactory to
               the Bank for reducing the cost of loss-
               making services and the gradual
               termination of such services, and the
               start of implementation of such program
               by March 31, 1991.

Part D:   Implementation of Parts B and C of the Project

1.   The Borrower shall cause NHB (a) to select the road
sections to be rehabilitated or strengthened annually
under Part B of the Project in accordance with technical
and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank, (b) to
carry out its periodic and routine maintenance programs
in accordance with the procedures described in its
maintenance intervention system.

2.   The Borrower shall cause PR to ensure, to the extent
warranted by technical and commercial considerations,

that (a) wagons equipped with roller bearings under the
Project will be run in sets of wagons equipped with the
same, (b) between Kundian and Attock: (i) loop capacities
will be extended to accommodate 72 wagon-trains; (ii)
track will be upgraded to accommodate 22 ton axle load
locomotives, and (iii) banking of loaded trains will be
undertaken to avoid load shedding.

                      SCHEDULE 6

                   Special Accounts

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means in
respect of the NHB Special Account an amount equivalent
to $7,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the NHB Special Account and in respect of
the PR Special Account an amount equivalent to
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the PR Special Account, all pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the NHB Special Account or the PR Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the NHB Special Account or the PR Special
Account, as the case may be, such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Accounts at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the relevant Special
               Account such amount as the Borrower shall

have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of such
               Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
               Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other
               evidence.

4.   For each payment made by NHB out of the NHB Special
Account or by PR out of the PR Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Accounts:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the NHB Special Account or the PR
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the NHB Special Account or
the PR Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in either of the Special Accounts.

(d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.