World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3142 JO

                    Loan Agreement

      (Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan)

                        between

            THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated January 5, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3142 JO

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 5, 1990, between HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated
November 26, 1989 from the Borrower describing a program
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing
of urgently needed imports and services required during
such execution; and

     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing the
Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:

     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified
to read:

          "’Project’ means the imports and other
     activities that may be financed out of the proceeds

of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule
     1 to the Loan Agreement.";

     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

          "(c) Not later than six months after the
     Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
     for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank,
     the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
     a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
     the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
     Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
     Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
     the Loan"; and

     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Harmonized System" means the tariff
nomenclature system established by the International
Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and
Coding System, which entered into force on January 1,
1988;

     (b)  "Encouragement of Investment Law" means Law No.
11 of 1987, published in the Official Gazette No. 3468 on
April 1, 1987, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

     (c)  "Export Rediscount Facility" means the program
operated by the Central Bank of Jordan for the financing
of exports from the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan,
established by regulations issued pursuant to Article 43
of the Central Bank of Jordan Law 23 of 1971;

     (d)  "Export Rediscount Rate" means the interest
rate applicable to financing provided to exporters by
financial institutions in Jordan under the Export
Rediscount Facility;

     (e)  "Free Zones Corporation" means the corporation
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 32 dated
December 16, 1984;

     (f)  "Industrial Estates Corporation" means the
corporation established and operating pursuant to Law No.
59 dated October 1, 1985;

     (g)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M. No.
34/Rec. 3 (1986);

     (h)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (i)  "Tariff Rate" means the sum of the following
three import tax rates: (i) import license fee; (ii)
customs duty; and (iii) additional taxes.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or

referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Program, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1992, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period of which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less

than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year.".

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 of this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

                 Particular Covenants

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. Not later than March 31, 1990, the
Borrower shall carry out and complete, under terms of
reference which shall have been approved by the Bank, the
following studies: (a) a study to develop a national
strategy for export and investment promotion, including
a study to review the future role, business development
and institutional structure of the corporation to be
formed by the merger of the Industrial Estates
Corporation and the Free Zones Corporation; (b) a study
of alternative institutional arrangements for financing
exports; (c) an organization and management study for an
agency to be established to improve the coordination and
efficiency of Governmental and Non-Governmental
organizations engaged in assisting the poor; (d) a
marketing study to identify productive project marketing
needs and bottlenecks for small scale activities; and (e)
an inventory of the geographical and functional coverage
of agencies serving the poor. To that end, the Borrower

shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by January 1, 1990
remove quantitative import restrictions and import bans
on selected products determined in agreement with the
Bank.

     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section,
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, a
               certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audits referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,

together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

                      ARTICLE IV

            Additional Event of Suspension

     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  that the Borrower shall have issued and
published in its Official Gazette a resolution providing
that: (i) the maximum Tariff Rate applied to imports
shall be reduced to 60%, except for certain goods,
previously approved by the Bank, for which no similar
goods are produced in Jordan; and (ii) certain imports,
previously approved by the Bank, shall be subject to a
supplemental tax to be collected by the Borrower at
customs in addition to the tariff referred to in
subparagraph (a)(i) above;

     (b)  that the Borrower shall have issued and
published in its Official Gazette a resolution increasing
the minimum Tariff Rate applied to imports to 5%, except
for certain capital goods, cereals, and other items
specified in agreement with the Bank;

     (c)  that the Borrower shall have made revisions,
satisfactory to the Bank, to the Encouragement of
Investment Law to streamline application of investment
incentives;

     (d)  that the Borrower shall have introduced
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to increase the
effectiveness of the Export Rediscount Facility; and

     (e)  that the macro-economic policy framework of the
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the
Program.

     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

      Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

Minister of Planning
          P.O. Box 555
          Amman
          Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

          Cable address            Telex:

               MINISTRY OF PLANNING          21319 JO
               Amman

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable Address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

               By /s/ Hussein Hammami
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of: (i) goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds; and (ii) other items of expenditures relating
to technical assistance, all as listed in the table set
forth below:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Imported       148,500,000       100% of foreign

goods required                       expenditures
   during the
   execution of
   the Program

(2)    Consultant’s     1,500,000       100% of foreign
   services for                         expenditures
   the activities                       and 90% of
   referred to in                       local expendi-
   Section 3.03                         tures
   of this
   Agreement

       Total          150,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the
following SITC groups or sub-groups, or any successor
groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC,
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

     Group          Sub-group      Description of Items

     112            -         Alcoholic beverages

     121            -         Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                              tobacco refuse

     122            -         Tobacco, manufactured
                              (whether or not con-
                              taining tobacco sub-
                              stitutes)

     525            -         Radioactive and
                              associated materials

     667            -         Pearls, precious and
                              semi-precious stones,
                              unworked or worked

     718       718.7               Nuclear reactors,
                                   and parts thereof,
                                   fuel elements
                                   (cartridges), non-
                                   irradiated for
                                   nuclear reactors

     897       897.3               Jewelry of gold,
                                   silver or platinum
                                   group metals (except
                                   watches and watch
                                   cases) and
                                   goldsmiths’ or
                                   silversmiths’ wares
                                   (including set gems)

     971       -              Gold, non-monetary
                              (excluding gold ores and

concentrates)

     (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;

     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$29,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after July 1,
1989;

     (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $10,000 equivalent;

     (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a
contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Bank shall have
financed or agreed to finance;

     (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military
or para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and

     (g)  expenditures in excess of an amount equivalent
to $30,000,000 for each of petroleum products and
foodstuffs.

4.   Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurements of goods estimated to cost less than
$2,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify.

5.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the
Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $75,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.

6.   If, after the exchange of views described in
paragraph 5 above, the Bank shall have given notice to
the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken
are not satisfactory and within 90 days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and
taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                      SCHEDULE 2

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

On each January 1 and July 1

     beginning July 1, 1995
     through July 1, 2006                    6,250,000

On January 1, 2007                      6,250,000

________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment            Premium

                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not               0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years                 1.00
     before maturity

                      SCHEDULE 3

                      Procurement

1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and
the following is substituted therefor:

     "2.8 Notification and Advertising

          The international community should be notified
     in a timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This
     will be done by advertising invitations to apply
     for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list, to
     apply for prequalification, or to bid; such
     advertisements should be placed in at least one
     newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower’s
     country and, in addition, in at least one of the
     following forms:

(i)  a notice in the United Nations
               publication, Development Business; or

          (ii) an advertisement in a newspaper,
               periodical or technical journal of wide
               international circulation; or

          (iii)     a notice to local representatives of
                    countries and territories referred
                    to in the Guidelines, that are
                    potential suppliers of the goods
                    required."

     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph
2.21 of the Guidelines:

          "As a further alternative, bidding documents
     may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
     single currency widely used in international trade
     and specified in the bidding documents."

     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted.

2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be
awarded:

     (a)  by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s
public procurement procedures for the importation of
goods, on the basis of such procedures, subject to such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank;

     (b)  by other purchasers, in accordance with
established commercial practice, provided that such
contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at
least two countries, except that direct contracting
procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines;

     (c)  notwithstanding the provision of sub-paragraph
(b) above, contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000
each shall be awarded, by other purchasers, in accordance
with established commercial practices in the Borrower’s
private sector, satisfactory to the Bank; and

     (d)  by any purchasers, for the supply of
commodities, on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
quotations obtained from more than one supplier.

3.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

4.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal application in respect of such contract.

5.   Notwithstanding the provision of paragraphs 3 and 4
of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to
be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the
copies of such contract or the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Bank as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and
5 shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure.

                      SCHEDULE 4

        Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
            of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.   The Borrower has prepared its public expenditure
program based upon an exchange of views thereon with the
Bank.

2.   The Borrower has achieved progress in the
implementation of measures to simplify tariff
administration, including:

     (a)  introduction of the Harmonized System;

     (b)  replacement of specific Tariff Rates with ad
valorem Tariff Rates; and

     (c)  setting Tariff Rates at multiples of 5%.

3.   The Borrower has reduced the maximum Tariff Rate
applied to imports to the level of 50%, except for
certain goods, previously approved by the Bank.

4.   The Borrower has furnished to the Bank, in respect
of items of imports specified by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank and which imports are also produced
in Jordan, a program specifying the future steps and
timing therefor for the equal taxation of such items of
imports and domestically produced items.

5.   The Borrower has adopted an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the merger of the
Industrial Estates Corporation and the Free Zones
Corporation and has adopted a national investment and
export promotion program, based on the recommendations of
the study referred in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.

6.   The Borrower has adopted a program, satisfactory to
the Bank, to finance exports, based on the
recommendations of the study described in Section 3.03
(b) of this Agreement.

7.   (a)  An agency to coordinate the Governmental and
Non-Governmental organizations engaged in assisting the
poor shall have been established in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank; (b) such agency shall
have been duly organized under the laws of Jordan; and
(c) the Borrower shall have adopted an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the operation of such
agency.

8.   The Borrower shall have ratified, or caused to be
ratified, the revisions to the provisions of the
Encouragement of Investment Law on the discretionary
elements of incentives, referred to in Section 5.01 (c)

of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 5
                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required during the execution of the Program
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account;

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of the
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.