World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3136-1 MOR

Loan Agreement

(Industrial Finance Project)

between

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

and

BANQUE CENTRALE POPULAIRE

                   Dated February 7, 1990

                                LOAN NUMBER 3136-1  MOR
                       LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and BANQUE CENTRALE POPULAIRE (the Borrower).

     WHEREAS (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, an the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements’ of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4

to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral ?art of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Industrial Enterprise" means any individual
entrepreneur or partnership of entrepreneurs or
enterprise operating within the industrial sector;

     (b  "Supporting Enterprise" means any individual
entrepreneur or partnership of entrepreneurs or
enterprise supporting the operations of the industrial
sector through, inter alia, the provision of product
design, quality control and testing, research and
development, engineering, technical and market
information, export promotion and marketing and
warehousing and storage services to Industrial
Enterprises;

     (c)  "Tourism Enterprise" means any individual
entrepreneur or partnership of entrepreneurs or
enterprise operating within the tourism sector;

     (d)  "Beneficiary" means any Industrial Enterprise,
Supporting Enterprise, leasing firm or Tourism Enterprise
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan for a Development Project;

     (e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for
a Development Project;

     (f)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule
5 to this Agreement;

     (g)  "Development Project" means any specific
development project referred to in Part A or B of the
Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;

     (h)  "Public Enterprise’ means any Beneficiary, of
which at least 50% of the outstanding voting stock or
other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Guarantor or by any of its political or
administrative subdivisions or agencies or by any Public
Enterprise;

     (i)  "Export Development Project" means any
Development Project referred to in Part B of the Project,
and any Development Project which is calculated on the
basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to generate
within 5 years of completion, annual exports and sales of
intermediate goods for incorporation in manufactured
products for export, equal at least to 40% of the value
of the expected incremental output of such Development
Project;

     (j)  "Charter" means the Guarantor’s Law (Dahir) No.
1
232 dated February 2, 1961, as amended to the date
of this Agreement, pursuant to which the Borrower has
been established and  operating, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

     (k)  "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines
regulating the provision of credit by financial
institutions in the Guarantor’s territory, issued by the
Guarantor’s Central Bank and summarized in the Note dated

October 25, 1989 prepared by the Professional Banking
Association of Morocco as said guidelines may be amended
from time to time;

     (l)  "Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme" means
the scheme established pursuant to the letter No. 3/4648
dated June 5, 1989 from the Guarantor’s Minister of
Finance to the Borrower for the protection of the
Borrower against the risk of foreign exchange losses; and

     (m)  "Dirhams" and "DH" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the
Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary
under a Sub-loan for a Development Project to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for such
Development Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to tine, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount out-
standing during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month
                   period ending on the date immediately
                   preceding each date specified in Section
                   2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                   the interest Period in which this
                   Agreement is signed.

          (ii)      "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means

the cost, as reasonably determined
                    by the Bank and expressed as a
                    percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                    drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                    excluding such borrowings or
                    portions thereof as the Bank has
                    allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
                    investments; and (B) loans which may
                    be made by the Bank after July 1,
                    1989 bearing interest rates
                    determined otherwise than as
                    provided in paragraph (a) of this
                    Section.

         (iii)      "Semester" means the first six months, or
                    the second six months of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate far each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (l/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the interest rate for the Interest
Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall be
seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project;
       Management and Operations of the Borrower

     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate technical, administrative, economic and
financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and staff in adequate numbers, and in
accordance with the Charter and the Credit Policy
Guidelines and shall provide promptly as needed, the

funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.

     Section 3.02. Without limitation on the provisions
of Section 3.01, the Borrower shall:

     (a)  (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for
Development Projects on the basis of the applicable
criteria, procedures and
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
5 to this Agreement; (ii) exercise its rights in relation
to each such Development Project in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and
achieve the purposes of the Project; and (iii) supervise
and monitor the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of
their respective Development Projects in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and

     (b)  ensure that, except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) the aggregate amount
of all Sub-loans made by the Borrower (A) to any one
Beneficiary shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000
and (B) for any one Development Project, shall not exceed
the lesser of (1) the equivalent of $5.000,000; and (2)
the equivalent of 70% of the total estimated cost
(excluding the cost of land) of such Development Project,
as such estimated cost shall be calculated in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the
aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made by the Borrower:
(A) to Public Enterprises shall not exceed the equivalent
of $1,800,000; (B) to leasing firms under Part A (2) of
the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of
$1,200,000; and (C) to Tourism Enterprises under Part B
of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of
$2,400,000; and (iii) the aggregate amount of all Sub-
loans made by the Borrower to Beneficiaries for
Development Projects other than Export Development
Projects, shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,800,000.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of the Project and of each Development Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.

     (b)   The Borrower shall:

           (i)      have the records referred to in paragraph
                    (a) of this Section, its accounts and
                    financial statements (balance sheets,
                    statements of income and expenses and
                    related statements) and the account
                    referred to in Section 4.02 of this
                    Agreement for each fiscal year audited in
                    accordance with sound auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent
                    auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii)      furnish to the as soon as available
                    but in any case not later than six
                    months after the end of each such
                    year: (A) certified copies of said
                    financial statements for such year
                    as so audited, and (B) the report of
                    such audit by said auditors, of such

scope and in such detail as the Bank
                    shall have reasonably requested; and

         (iii)      furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning the said
                    records, accounts and financial
                    statements and the audit thereof as
                    the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)     maintain, in accordance with paragraph
                    (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                    reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii)      retain, until at least one year
                    after the Bank has received the
                    audit report for the fiscal year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                    receipts and other documents)
                    evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii)      enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv)      ensure that such records and
                    accounts are included in the annual
                    audit referred to in paragraph (a)
                    of this Section and that the report
                    of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to
                    whether the statements of
                    expenditure submitted during such
                    fiscal year, together with the
                    procedures and internal controls
                    involved in their preparation, can
                    be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall open and
thereafter maintain in its books, in accordance with its
normal financial procedures and on conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a separate account to which it
shall credit each repayment of principal or a Sub-loan
upon receipt thereof. All  amounts so credited to said
separate account shall be utilized by the borrower, to
the extent they are not yet required to meet the
Borrower’s repayment obligations to the Bank under this
Agreement, exclusively to finance the further development
of the Guarantor’s industrial sector in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank

     Section 4.03.  (a) The Borrower shall take such
steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to
protect itself against the risk of loss resulting from
changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies
(including Dirhams) used in its operations.

     (b)  Without limitation on the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall at all
times maintain its participation in the Foreign Exchange
Risk Coverage Scheme in accordance with the requirements
thereof.

                       ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely that the Charter or the Credit Policy
Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or the financial condition of
the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, the event specified in Section 5.01
shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VI

                      Termination

     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The chief executive officer of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

               Cable address:      Telex:

               INTBAFRAD           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA) or
                                    64145 (WUI)

     For the Borrower:

          Banque Centrale Populaire
          101 Boulevard Zerktouni
          Casablanca
          Kingdom of Morocco

               Cable address:      Telex:

               BANCEPO             21723

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By             /s/  W. Wapenlians
                                Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                    BANQUE CENTRALE POPULAIRE

                    By             /s/  M. Faris
                              Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)  Sub-loans         12,000,000       100% of amounts
                                        paid by the
                                        Borrower to a
                                        Beneficiary

                       __________

       TOTAL           12,000,000

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)  a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and

     (b)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,200,000 may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1989.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in
financing such productive facilities and resources as
will contribute to the development of the Guarantor’s
industrial and tourism sectors and the expansion of
exports; and (ii) strengthen institutional capabilities
to facilitate such development and expansion.

     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Bank and the
Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

     The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by
the Borrower of specific development projects for the:

(1)  development, upgrading and expansion of the
facilities and strengthening of the operations of
Industrial Enterprises and Supporting Enterprises; and

(2)  provision of specialized manufacturing equipment to
leasing firms to be leased by Industrial Enterprises for
the development, upgrading and expansion of their
facilities.

Part B:

     The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by
the Borrower of specific development projects for the
development, upgrading and expansion of the facilities
and strengthening of the operations of Tourism
Enterprises.

                    *      *      *

     The  Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

May  15, 1995                           220,000
November 15, 1995                       225,000
May  15, 1996                           235,000
November 15, 1996                       245,000
May  15, 1997                           255,000
November 15, 1997                       265,000
May  15, 1998                           275,000
November 15, 1998                       285,000
May 15, 1999                            295,000
November 15,  1999                      310,000
May 15, 2000                            320,000
November 15, 2000                       330,000
May 15, 2001                            345,000
November 15, 2001                       360,000
May 15, 2002                            370,000
November 15, 2002                       385,000
May 15, 2003                            400,000
November 15, 2003                       415,000
May 15, 2004                            435,000
November 15, 2004                       450,000
May 15, 2005                            465,000
November 15, 2005                       485,000
May 15, 2006                            505,000
November 15, 2006                       525,000
May 15, 2007                            545,000
November 15, 2007                       565,000
May 15, 2008                            585,000
November 15, 2008                       610,000
May 15, 2009                            635,000
November 15, 2009                       660,000

_____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections

3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but               0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than three six years but           0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but              0.80
      not more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but             0.90
      not more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before         1.00
      maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

        Modifications of the General Conditions

     For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     (2)  The words "the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are
deleted and the following in substituted therefor:

          "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph
          4 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan;
          (i) have received no applications or requests
          under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said
          paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
          applications or requests, the Bank may, by
          notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
          terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
          such applications or requests or to make
          withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case
          may be, with respect to such amount or portion
          of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice,

such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
          cancelled."

                      SCHEDULE 5

           Sub-loans: Criteria, Procedures,
            Principal Terms and Conditions

     Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of
this Agreement, and except as the Bank and the Borrower
may otherwise agree, the criteria, procedures and
principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule
shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.

1.   Each Sub-Loan shall be made only to a Beneficiary
which shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank that it is creditworthy and, in the case of Sub-
loans under Parts A (1) and B of the Project, its
projected internal cash generation or equity increases
shall be sufficient to enable it to carry out the
Development Project and to contribute at least 30% of the
aggregate cost thereof (excluding the cost land).

2.   Each Sub-loan shall be made only for a Development
Project which is: (a) determined to be technically and
commercially feasible, including, on the basis, inter
alia, of the existence of markets for its output; (b)
designed in accordance with appropriate safety, health
and environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) calculated to have a financial rate of return and an
economic rate of return of at least 12% each; all as
shall have been determined and calculated to the
satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis of an
appraisal, including an environmental impact assessment,
carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank.

3.   No expenditures for goods or services required for
a Development Project shall be eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan unless:

     (a)  (i) the Sub-loan for such Development Project
shall have been approved by the Bank and (ii) such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-
loan; or

     (b)  (i) the Sub-loan for such Development Project
shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank
has authorized

withdrawals from the Loan Account and (ii) such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under
paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement a
free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan under Part A (1)
of the Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of
$2,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan
provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower entered into before the date of
this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are
being used for financing goods and services directly and

materially related to such Development Project, the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to
time as determined by the Bank.

     (c)  The ninety day limitation referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) (ii) and (b) (ii) of this paragraph shall
not apply to expenditures to be financed under Sub-loans
in respect of which the applications and information
required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule, or the
requests and information required under paragraph 4 (b)
of this Schedule, as the case may be, are received by the
Bank not later than December 31, 1989.

4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-
limit Subloan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the
Development Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of
the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

     (b)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of
a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary
description of the Beneficiary and the Development
Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan
including the schedule of amortization therefor.

     (c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before
June 30, 1992.

     5.  (a) Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest on
the principal amount thereof withdrawn outstanding from
time to time, at a rate equal at: least to the greater
of: (i) the rate of interest applicable, on the date upon
which the Sub-loan is made, to the Loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (ii)
(A) in the case of a Sub-loan under Part A of the
Project, the rate of interest established by the
Guarantor’s Minister of Finance, applicable, on the date
upon which the Sub-loan is made, to loans made by the
National Bank for Economic Development with the same
maturity as such Sub-loan; and (B) in the case of a Sub-
loan under Part B of the Project, the rate of interest
established by the Guarantor’s Minister of Finance,
applicable, on the date upon which such Sub-loan is made,
to loans made by the Real Estate and Hotel Finance
Company with the same maturity as such Sub-loan.

     (b)  For purposes of this paragraph: (i) the term
"National Bank for Economic Development" means Banque
Nationale pour le Developpement Economique, a financial
institution established and operating under the laws of
the Guarantor pursuant to the Convention dated July 30,
1959 approved by the Guarantor’s Law (Dahir) No. 1
294
dated October 21, 1959, as the same may be amended from
time to time; and (ii) the term "Real Estate and Hotel
Finance Company" means Credit Immobilier et Hotelier a
financial institution established and operating under the
laws of the Guarantor pursuant to statutes dated December
31, 1988, as the same may be amended from time to time.

6.   Each Sub-loan shall have a maturity of not more than
12 years, including a grace period of not more than 5

years; provided that Sub-loans under Part A (2) of the
Project shall have a maturity of not more than 5 years.

7.   Each Sub-loan shall be made on further terms whereby
the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including:

     (a)  that each Beneficiary shall undertake to: (i)
carry out and operate the Development Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with (A) sound
technical, financial and managerial standards, and (B)
appropriate safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank; maintain adequate records; and
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and
other resources required for the purpose; (ii) procure
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery
and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them
(provided that the Beneficiary may, with the prior
approval of the Bank, carry out works under force account
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank);
and utilize such goods and services exclusively in the
carrying out of the Development Project; (iii) enable the
Bank and the Borrower to inspect such goods and the sites
and works included in the Development Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice, including without, limitation, such insurance
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely useable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods; and (v) prepare and furnish to the Borrower,
for forwarding to the Bank, if so requested by the Bank,
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
management, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the
Development Project; and

     (b)  provisions to ensure the right of the Borrower
to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract
providing for the Sub-loan.