World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3179 ZIM

                          Loan Agreement

       (Forest Resources Management and Development Project)

                              between

                             ZIMBABWE

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                     Dated September 27, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3179 ZIM

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1990, between ZIMBABWE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Danish
International Development Agency (DAN IDA), a grant (the DANIDA
Grant) in an amount equivalent to nine million four hundred thousand
dollars ($9,400,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the DANIDA Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and DANIDA;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADE A), a loan (the BADEA Loan) in
an amount equivalent to nine million four hundred thousand dollars
($9,400,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the BADEA Loan Agreement)

to be entered into between the Borrower and BADEA;

      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from Her Majesty the
Queen in Right of Canada acting through the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), a grant in an amount equivalent to one
million dollars (US$1,000,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
(CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
CIDA;

      (E)   the Project will be carried out by the Forestry
Commission with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Forestry
Commission the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and Forestry Commission;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "FC" means the Forestry Commission established under the
Forest Act (CAP 125) of the Laws of the Borrower as amended to the
date of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and FC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FC pursuant to Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fourteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($14,500,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part C of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

   Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a

calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause FC to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of FC therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable FC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall take
all necessary action to provide FC with the foreign exchange
required for the rehabilitation of sawmills under paragraphs 7 and
8 of Part C of the Project.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to FC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FC, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank which shall include interest at the
applicable rate charged by the Borrower for its loans to its
parastatal organizations, with payment of principal in 15 years
including 3 years of grace.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works, goods and consultants’ services required
for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall
be carried out by FC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)

evidencing such expenditures are retained, until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and
            (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by not later than October
1, 1990, take all necessary action to cover the outstanding debt
owed by FC to the Borrower into equity.

      Section 4.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
continue to provide to FC all the funds, facilities and other
resources required by FC to carry out services to the public on
behalf of the Borrower and the Borrower shall assume any and all
liabilities arising out of the carrying out of such services.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   FC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that FC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The Forest Act of the Borrower as amended to the date of
this Agreement shall have been further amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of FC to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FC or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that:

                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and

                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and conditions consistent
                        with the obligations of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e)(i)(B) (subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur).

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and FC; and

      (b)   The BADEA Loan Agreement has been duly executed on behalf
of the parties thereto and all conditions (if any) precedent to the
effectiveness or initial disbursement of funds under such agreement,
other than the fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been satisfied.

      Section 6.02. The following arc specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by FC, and is legally binding upon FC in accordance with
its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and FC in accordance with its terms

      Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance, Economic Planning and Development is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:

            The Secretary
            Ministry of Finance,
              Economic Planning and Development
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway, Harare
            Zimbabwe

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    MINFIN 22141 ZW
                  Harare                    Zimbabwe

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA) or
                                            64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  ZIMBABWE

                  By /s/ B.T.G. Chidzeno
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works for:

    (a)  sawmill               1,000,000        70%
         building
         and log
         yard

    (b)  access                  500,000        30%
         roads
         under
         Part C.6
         of the
         Project

(2) Goods                      8,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’               2,500,000        100%
    services

(4) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                14,500,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and

      (b)   payments made for expenditures under Category (2) of the
table in paragraph l above, unless and until FC has procured and
taken delivery of the sawmill equipment (saws, dry mill and storage,
mobile equipment, product transport and product depot) to be
financed under the BADEA Loan Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (i) the
conservation of the forests and environment in Zimbabwe, including
the increase in the production of wood for fuel and construction
purposes by promotion of tree planting and woodland management in
its Communal Areas; (ii) the improvement of forest grazing and
wildlife management; and (iii) the improvement in the productivity
of wood-processing industries by upgrading the logging, extraction,
saw milling and manufacturing facilities and operations.

      The Project consists of the following parts subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Rural Forestry

1.    Establishment of about 1050 small-scale nurseries by target
groups and production of about 12 million seedlings for use by them.

2.    Establishment of about 10 nurseries by FC and support for 69
existing central nurseries for the production and distribution of
about 21 million seedlings, including a program for transfer of such
nurseries to local beneficiaries.

3.    Establishment of about 10,300 hectares of wood lots and
individual trees by target groups and planting of about 9.8 million
seedlings.

4.    Rehabilitation and improvement of the management of about 800
of wood lots under the management of District Councils.

5.    Carrying out a pilot program for the improved protection ar Id
management of existing woodlands in Masvingo Province.

6.    Carrying out a program of testing of tree species, including
indigenous species to determine their suitability and potential for
agro-forestry and development.

7.    Production of extension and training materials, such as
booklets, posters and films.
8.    Strengthening of FC through the carrying out
of in-service
staff training and provision of technical advisory services,
monitoring and evaluation techniques.

9.    Provision of technical advisory services and training in
forestry extension for staff of the Borrower’s Ministry of
Education, Department of Natural Resources, the Department of
Agricultural, Technical and Extension Services and eligible non-
governmental organizations.

10.   Carrying out of socio-economic and resources studies.

11.   Carrying out a program to continue to foster the participation
of women and non-governmental organizations in rural afforestation.

12.   Acquisition of four-wheel drive vehicles, other vehicles and
motorcycles.

13.   Construction of additional housing at FC’s head quarters and
its provincial offices, including housing for its staff.

Part B:     Wildlife and Forest Grazing Management

1.    Establishment of a 3,800 hectares buffer zone in the Eland
Block of the Mbembesi Resettlement Area between Mbembesi and Umgusa
Forests.

2.    Establishment of a 8,500 hectares grazing area in the Mbembesi
Forest for the Eland Block Community.

3.    Relocation of 12 families on a site close to community
facilities.

4.    Construction of three watering points to serve communities and
wildlife and to provide a source of water in the Eland Block area of
the Mbembesi Resettlement Area.

5.    Carrying out a socio-economic baseline survey and range
management study of the Tsholotsho Communal Area.

6.    Carrying out a detailed feasibility study of a participatory
wildlife and forestry management scheme in the Tsholotsho Communal
Area.
7.    Construction of six watering points to serve the Tsholotsho
Communal Area.

8.    Establishment of eight kilometers of elephant fencing trial.

9.    Carrying out a detailed study of the proposed Mafungabusi
Forest (Gokwe District) forestry grazing management scheme,
including the carrying out of a baseline study and a socio-economic
analysis of the scheme and preparation of appropriate guidelines for
its operations.

Part C:     Commercial Forestry Activities of FC

1.    Construction of a new sawmill complex in Chimanimani to
process about 100,000 cubic meters of saw log per annum and to
produce about 43,000 cubic meters of sawn timber.

2.    Construction of ancillary mill offices, stores and a
maintenance shop to service logging equipment, logging trucks and
sawmill equipment.

3.    Construction of staff housing and acquisition of a saw filing
tooth setting facility.

4.    Acquisition of logging operation equipment, including five
short-length logging trucks, three long-length logging trucks,
two-wheeled loaders, two-wheeled skidders, 16 chain saws and a cable
yarder.

5.    Provision of three-man years of technical advisory services in
engineering.

6.    Construction of a 12-kilometer road to link the Chimanimani
Sawmill with the main road to Mutare and the upgrading and
maintenance of the existing road through the acquisition of a
grader, tipper truck, water tank trailer and low bed tractor.

7.    Improvement of FC’s existing sawmills at Erin, Stapleford,
Gwendingwe and Martin through the acquisition of two kilns, a road
chipper, frame saw and debarking facilities, slab chipping and chip
screening facilities, an incinerator, four long-length logging
trucks, four short-length logging trucks, three skidders, two cable
cranes, 4 tractors with trailers, a skyline unit and a crawler
skidder.
8.    Construction of 1,800 cubic meters dry timber sheds.

                              *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1995                               265,000
June 15, 1996                                   275,000
December 15, 1996                               285,000
June 15, 1997                                   295,000

December 15, 1997                               310,000
June 15, 1998                                   320,000
December 15, 1998                               330,000
June 15, 1999                                   345,000
December 15, 1999                               360,000
June 15, 2000                                   370,000
December 15, 2000                               385,000
June 15, 2001                                   400,000
December 15, 2001                               415,000
June 15, 2002                                   435,000
December 15, 2002                               450,000
June 15, 2003                                   465,000
December 15, 2003                               485,000
June 15, 2004                                   505,000
December 15, 2004                               525,000
June 15, 2005                                   545,000
December 15, 2005                               565,000
June 15, 2006                                   585,000
December 15, 2006                               610,000
June 15, 2007                                   635,000
December 15, 2007                               655,000
June 15, 2008                                   685,000
December 15, 2008                               710,000
June 15, 2009                                   735,000
December 15, 2009                               765,000
June 15, 2010                                   790,000

____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of prepayment,
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                 0.15
   before maturity

More than three years but                 0.30
   not more than six years
   before maturity

More than six years but                   0.55
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity

More than 11 years but not                0.80
   more than 16 years
   before maturity

More than 16 years but not                0.90
   more than 18 years
   before maturity

More than 18 years before                 1.00
   maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required
for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of six
hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, tho
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been made out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this

Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Part C of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Part C of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part C of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposited in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.