World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3402 IND

                 (Agricultural Financing Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated November 6, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3402 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS (B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Bank
Dagang Nasional Indonesia (BDNI), Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
(BankExim), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (Bank BNI), Bank Niaga, Pan
Indonesia Bank (PANIN), and Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO),
with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the BDNI, BankExim, Bank BNI, Bank
Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;

      WHEREAS (C) Lembaga Pengembangan Perbankan Indonesia (LPPI)

will carry out Part B of the Project with the Borrower’s assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
LPPI part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith amongst the Bank and the BDNI, BankExim, Bank
BNI, Bank Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO, and in the LPPI Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and LPPI;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to  Loan
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifica-
tions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BI" means Bank Indonesia, the central bank of the
Borrower, established and operating under Law No. 13 of 1968 of the
Borrower;

      (b)   "Participating Banks" mean collectively BDNI, BankExim,
Bank BNI, Bank Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO, and "Participating Bank"
means any one of them;

      (c)   "SEHAT" means the classification of a Participating Bank
as financially sound made by BI, from time to time, pursuant to
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;

      (d)   "five State-owned Commercial Banks" means collectively
Bank Bumi Daya, Bank Dagang Negara, Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia,
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, and Bank Rakyat Indonesia;

      (e)   "BDNI Charter" means the Articles of Association of Bank
Dagang Nasional Indonesia dated January 16, 1946, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;

      (f)   "BankExim Governing Law" means Act on Bank Ekspor Impor
Indonesia (Act No. 22 of year 1968), as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (g)   "Bank BNI Governing Law" means Act on Bank Negara
Indonesia 1946 (Act No. 17 of year 1968), as amended to the date of
this Agreement;

      (h)   "Bank Niaga Charter" means the Articles of Association
of Bank Niaga dated September 26, 1955, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;

      (i)   "BAPINDO Governing Law" means Act on Bank Pembangunan
Indonesia (Act No. 21 of year 1960), as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (j)   "PANIN Charter" means the Articles of Association of Pan
Indonesia Bank dated August 17, 1971, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (k)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
or effectively controlled by a Participating Bank or by any one or
more subsidiaries of a Participating Bank or by a Participating Bank

and one or more of its subsidiaries;

      (l)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BDNI, BankExim, Bank BNI, Bank Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO  of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

      (m)   "LPPI Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and LPPI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the LPPI Project Agreement;

      (n)   "BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BI pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the BI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (o)   "BDNI On-lending Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the BI and BDNI pursuant to Section 3.01 (f)
(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the BDNI On-
lending Agreement;

      (p)   "BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BankExim  pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to
the BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (q)   "Bank BNI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Bank BNI  pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to
the Bank BNI  Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (r)   "Bank Niaga On-lending Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between BI and Bank Niaga pursuant to Section 3.01
(f) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Bank
Niaga On-lending Agreement;

      (s)   "BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BAPINDO pursuant to
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to
the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (t)   "PANIN On-lending Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between BI and PANIN pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) (iii)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules supplemental to the PANIN On-
lending Agreement;

      (u)   "BI Financial Arrangement" means the arrangement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BI pursuant to Section 3.01
(l) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (v)   "LPPI Financial Arrangement" means the arrangement to be
entered into between BI and LPPI pursuant to Section 3.01 (m) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (w) "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided for in the
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending Agreement, as the
case may be;

      (x) "Initial Subsidiary Loan" means the Subsidiary Loan in an
amount of $10,000,000 equivalent on-lent to each Participating Bank
pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, respectively;

(y) "Additional Subsidiary Loan" means the Subsidiary Loan in
the aggregate amount of $45,000,000 equivalent on-lent to any of the
Participating Banks  pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (k)
of this Agreement;

      (z)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank to an Investment Enterprise for an Agricultural
Investment Project or for an Agribusiness Investment Project, as the
case may be, funded in part out of the equivalent of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to such Participating Bank under the respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending Agreement;

      (aa)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 2 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement;

      (bb)  "Uncommitted Funds" means the aggregate amount of the
proceeds of the Loan on-lent to a Participating Bank pursuant to
this Agreement, which at the Remedial Date has not been committed by
such Participating Bank to finance Sub-loans approved by the Bank
pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
and in the case of free-limit Sub-loans, authorized by the Bank for
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement;

      (cc)  "Supervision Date" means the date referred to in Section
3.01 (j) of this Agreement;

      (dd)  "Remedial Date" means the date referred to in Section
3.01 (j) of this Agreement;

      (ee)  "Investment Enterprise" means an individual resident in
Indonesia, and cooperatives and private enterprises established and
operating in Indonesia, which is either engaged in the agricultural
sub-sector or the agro-based industry sub-sector, having operating
assets (excluding land, buildings and inventories) of less than
$500,000 equivalent, to which: (a) a Participating Bank proposes to
make or has made a Sub-loan; and/or (b) LPPI proposes to provide or
has provided technical services under Part B (i) of the Project;

      (ff)  "Agricultural Investment Project" means a specific
development project for the primary production of agricultural, milk
and livestock, fishery and forestry products to be carried out by an
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (gg)  "Agribusiness Investment Project" means a specific
development project for the processing of agricultural, milk and
livestock, fishery and forestry products to be carried out by an
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (hh)  "Appraisal Advisor" means the advisor to be retained
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the LPPI Project
Agreement;

      (ii)  "Technical Assistance Unit" means the unit established
within LPPI on October 1, 1988,  for purposes, inter alia, of
providing technical assistance to Investment Enterprises to prepare
plans for Agricultural Investment Projects and Agribusiness
Investment Projects;

      (jj)  "Regional Project Management Units" means the units
established by BI at the regional level to be entrusted, pursuant to
Section 3.01 (l) (ii) of this Agreement, in assisting LPPI in
carrying out Part B of the Project; and

      (kk)  "Technical Assistance Fund" means the fund to be
financed in part out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to Section
3.01 (m) of this Agreement, and in part out of the proceeds of the
Japan Grant under the Small and Medium Enterprises Project (Loan
No. 3041-IND), and to be administered by the LPPI, through the
Technical Assistance Unit, for purposes, inter alia, of providing
consultancy services to Investment Enterprises under Part B of the

Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred six
million one hundred thousand dollars ($106,100,000).

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts
to be paid) by a Participating Bank on account of withdrawals made
by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan to meet the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Agricultural Investment
Project or Agribusiness Investment Project, as the case may be, in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of

Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practible after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter.

            "(c)  (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                    Description of the Project;
                    Use of Proceeds of the Loan

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i) cause BDNI, BankExim, Bank BNI, Bank Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO
each to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of BDNI, BankExim, Bank BNI, Bank
Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO  therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
BDNI, BankExim, Bank BNI, Bank Niaga, PANIN and BAPINDO  each to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
and (ii) cause LPPI to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the LPPI Project Agreement and LPPI Financial Arrangement all the
obligations of LPPI therein set forth and shall take and cause LPPI
to take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
LPPI to perform its obligations therein set forth, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance; all of the aforesaid with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural, agribusiness,
technical, economic, managerial, training, and environmental
practices.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to BI an amount equivalent to $ 30,000,000, and such other
amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of this Section representing
disbursements made, from time to time, from the Loan Account by
either BDNI, Bank Niaga or PANIN to finance Sub-loans, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BI under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank which shall include:

            (i)   those set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j)
                  and (k) of this Section;

           (ii)   the obligation of BI to on-lend the funds so
                  relent under the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
                  BDNI, Bank Niaga and PANIN pursuant to the
                  provisions of paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and
                  (k) of this Section;

         (iii)    the obligation of BI to: (A) supervise the

financial performance of each Participating Bank;
                  and (B) require that each of the Participating
                  Bank undertakes measures to maintain or regain,
                  as the case may, their SEHAT classification;

           (iv)   the obligation of BI to provide, free of charge,
                  to the Participating Banks the services of its
                  Management Information System for monitoring and
                  reporting date on Sub-loan approvals, collection
                  of payments of principal and interest, and
                  arrears on such payments; and

            (v)   the obligation of BI to provide, free of charge,
                  to LPPI the services of an agricultural economist
                  consultant, and four agricultural experts of its
                  Regional Project Management Units, to assist LPPI
                  in carrying out Part B of the Project.

      (c)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to BankExim an amount equivalent to $ 10,000,000, and such
other amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of this Section representing
disbursements made, from time to time, from the Loan Account by
BankExim  to finance Sub-loans, under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BankExim under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include those set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and (k) of
this Section.

      (d)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to Bank BNI an amount equivalent to $ 10,000,000, and such
other amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of this Section representing
disbursements made, from time to time, from the Loan Account by Bank
BNI to finance Sub-loans, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Bank BNI  under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include those set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and (k) of
this Section.

      (e)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to BAPINDO an amount equivalent to $ 10,000,000, and such
other amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of this Section representing
disbursements made, from time to time, from the Loan Account by
BAPINDO to finance Sub-loans, under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BAPINDO under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include those set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and (k) of
this Section.

      (f)    BI shall, out of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan
under the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on-lend to:

            (i)   BDNI an amount equivalent to $ 10,000,000, and
                  such other amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of
                  this Section representing disbursements made,
                  from time to time, from the Loan Account by BDNI
                  to finance Sub-loans, under an on-lending
                  agreement to be entered into between BI and BDNI
                  under terms and conditions which shall have been
                  approved by the Bank which shall include those
                  set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and
                  (k) of this Section;

           (ii)   Bank Niaga an amount equivalent to $10,000,000,
                  or such other amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of
                  this Section representing disbursements made,
                  from time to time, from the Loan Account by Bank
                  Niaga to finance Sub-loans, under an on-lending
                  agreement to be entered into between BI and Bank
                  Niaga under terms and conditions which shall have
                  been approved by the Bank which shall include
                  those set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j)
                  and (k) of this Section; and

(iii)   PANIN an amount equivalent to $ 10,000,000, and
                  such other amount pursuant to paragraph (k) of
                  this Section representing disbursements made,
                  from time to time, from the Loan Account by PANIN
                  to finance Sub-loans, under an on-lending
                  agreement to be entered into between BI and PANIN
                  under terms and conditions which shall have been
                  approved by the Bank which shall include those
                  set forth in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and
                  (k) of this Section.

      (g)   The terms and conditions of the respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and On-lending Agreements shall include:

            (i)   interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable
                  at a variable rate per annum equal to the average
                  six months interest rate per annum of Bank
                  Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI) with
                  a three-month maturity.  Such rate to be adjusted
                  on January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing
                  on July 1, 1992, and calculated based on the
                  average of SBI three-month maturity quotations
                  during the preceding six months; provided,
                  however, that the interest rate on the Subsidiary
                  Loan shall not, in any given six-month period,
                  exceed the average of the end-of-day quotations
                  of the per annum interest rate of the three-month
                  time deposit of the five State-owned Commercial
                  Banks during the same six-month period, or such
                  other limit satisfactory to the Bank; provided,
                  further that the interest on the Subsidiary Loan
                  for the period from the date of the Subsidiary
                  Loan Agreement through July 1, 1992, shall be
                  determined on the basis of the average of the per
                  annum interest rate of SBI three-month maturity
                  quotations during the six months preceding
                  July 1, 1992;

           (ii)   Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid over a period of
                  15 years, including a grace period of three
                  years;

          (iii)   Each of BankExim, Bank BNI and BAPINDO,  shall
                  pay the Borrower, and each of BDNI, Bank Niaga
                  and PANIN shall pay the Borrower through BI, a
                  commitment charge on the undisbursed portion of
                  their respective Initial Subsidiary Loan at a per
                  annum rate identical to the rate paid by the
                  Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of
                  this Agreement.  In respect of the aggregate
                  undisbursed proceeds of the Loan in excess of the
                  aggregate Initial Subsidiary Loan each of
                  BankExim, BNI and BAPINDO shall pay the Borrower,
                  and each of BDNI, Bank Niaga and PANIN shall pay
                  the Borrower through BI, a commitment charge at a
                  per annum rate identical to the rate paid by the
                  Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of
                  this Agreement, on an amount to be divided in
                  equal portions amongst the Participating Banks;
                  and

           (iv)   the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                  Borrower.

      (h)   After September 30, 1993, (the Reallocation Date) the
Borrower may, with the prior approval of the Bank, amend the amount
of any Subsidiary Loan under the BankExim Subsidiary Loan, the Bank
BNI Subsidiary Loan, the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan, and BI may, with
the prior approval of the Bank and the Borrower, amend the amount of
any Subsidiary Loan under an On-lending Agreement, pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(i)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (h) of
this Section, prior to the Reallocation Date and at the request of
a Participating Bank(s), the Borrower may, with the prior approval
of the Bank, amend the amount of any Subsidiary Loan under the
BankExim Subsidiary Loan, the Bank BNI Subsidiary Loan, and the
BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan, and BI may, with the prior approval of the
Bank and the Borrower, amend the amount of any Subsidiary Loan under
an On-lending Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      (j)   If at any given time (the Supervision Date) BI deter-
mines that a Participating Bank does not comply with BI requirements
so as to maintain its SEHAT classification, BI shall promptly, but
in any event not later than 30 days after the Supervision Date,
require such Participating Bank to undertake measures to regain its
SEHAT status by a prescribed date (the Remedial Date). Promptly
thereafter BI shall inform the Borrower and the Bank that a
situation has arisen that may require by the Remedial Date the
reallocation of the Uncommitted Funds of such Participating Bank.
If by the Remedial Date, in the opinion of BI, such Participating
Bank has not regained its SEHAT status, the Uncommitted Funds of
such Participating Bank may, in consultation with the Bank, be
allocated, in part or in total, to other Participating Banks by the
Borrower or BI, as the case may be, provided that by the Remedial
Date such other Participating Banks: (i) have fully committed to
finance either approved Sub-loans or free-limit Sub-loans authorized
by the Bank to withdraw from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
the respective amounts which as of the Remedial Date have been on-
lent pursuant to this Agreement; and (ii) have requests for
financing Agricultural Investment Projects and Agribusiness
Investment Projects representing in the aggregate the amount to be
allocated.  The amount of the Subsidiary Loan of the Participating
Bank which has not been able to maintain its SEHAT status shall be
reduced in the amount representing the Uncommitted Funds as of the
Remedial Date, and the amount of the Subsidiary Loan of the other
Participating Banks which meet the requirements of the proviso of
sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph shall be revised
accordingly. The Uncommitted Funds not reallocated pursuant to this
paragraph may be cancelled by the Bank.

      (k)   The Additional Subsidiary Loan or portions thereof shall
be on-lent to any Participating Bank pursuant to the following
criteria: (i) the Participating Bank requesting an allocation from
the Additional Subsidiary Loan or portions thereof shall have fully
committed its Initial Subsidiary Loan and its Additional Subsidiary
Loan, if that be the case, to finance either approved Sub-loans or
free-limit Sub-loans authorized by the Bank to withdraw from the
Loan Account, as the case may be; and (ii) such Participating Bank
shall have requests for financing Agricultural Investment Projects
and Agribusiness Investment Projects representing in the aggregate
the amount to be allocated.

      (l)   The Borrower shall make available to BI an amount
equivalent to $1,100,000, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
under Category 2 of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, under a financial arrangement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BI, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank which shall include:

            (i)   that the amounts so made available shall be made
                  available by BI to LPPI pursuant to the
                  provisions of Section 3.01 (m) of this Agreement;

           (ii)   that BI shall entrust the Regional Project
                  Management Units to assist LPPI in carrying out
                  Part B of the Project; and

            (iii) that BI shall provide to LPPI, free of charge, an
                  agricultural economist consultant to assist LPPI
                  in carrying out Part B of the Project.

(m)   BI shall make available to LPPI, as a grant, the amounts
made available to BI by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (l)
(i) of this Agreement, under a financial arrangement to be entered
into between BI and LPPI, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall include that the amount so made available
shall be used exclusively for purposes of carrying out Part B of the
Project.

      (n)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BI Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, the BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Bank BNI Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and shall cause BI to exercise its rights under the BDNI
On-lending Agreement, the Bank Niaga On-lending Agreement, and the
PANIN On-lending Agreement, in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof, and shall cause
BI not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive such On-lending Agree-
ments or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the
Participating Banks pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement.

                           ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Either a Participating Bank or LPPI shall have failed to
perform any of their obligations under the Project Agreement or the
LPPI Project Agreement, respectively.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that either a Participating Bank or
LPPI will be able to perform their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement or the LPPI Project Agreement, respectively.

      (c)   The Governing Law or the Charter, as the case may be, of
any Participating Bank shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial condition of the respective
Participating Bank or its ability to carry out Part A of the Project
or to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of a Participating Bank or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   The Governing Law of LPPI shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of LPPI or its
ability to carry out Part B of the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the LPPI Project Agreement.

      (f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of LPPI or for the suspension of its operations.

      (g)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to a
Participating Bank having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have became due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the related contractual instru-
ment, or any security for any such loan shall became enforceable.

(h)   A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by a Participating Bank, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
such Participating Bank’s business or such Participating Bank’s
financial condition or the efficiency of such Participating Bank’s
management and personnel in carrying out the Project.

      (i)   (1)   Subject to subparagraph (2) of this paragraph the
                  right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                  any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                  financing of the Project shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor.

         (2)      Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (h) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement, other than failure to comply with the
provisions of Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement by any given
Participating Bank, shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and the respective Participating Bank;

      (b)   failure by any given Participation Bank to comply with
the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement shall occur
and shall continue after the Remedial Date established by BI
pursuant to Sections 3.01 (b) (iii) (B) and 3.01 (j) of this
Agreement;

      (c)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) or
(g) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (d)   the event specified in paragraph (i) (1) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (i)(2) of such Section.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered
into between the Borrower and BI, respectively;

      (b)   that at least two of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
two of the On-lending Agreements provided for in Section 3.01 (c),
(d), (e) and (f) of this Agreement have been entered between the
respective Participating Bank and the Borrower and BI, as the case
may be;

      (c)   that the BI Financial Arrangement and the LPPI Financial
Arrangement have been entered into between the Borrower and BI, and
between BI and LPPI, respectively; and

(d)   that the Appraisal Advisor and the agronomist have been
appointed by LPPI pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
LPPI Project Agreement, and the agricultural economist has been
assigned by BI to assist LPPI pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.01 (l) (iii) of this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by each Participating Bank and is legally binding upon each
Participating Bank in accordance with its terms;

      (b)   that the LPPI Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by LPPI and is legally binding upon the LPPI in
accordance with its terms;

      (c)   that the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and BI in accordance with its terms;

      (d)   that the agreements refered to in Section 5.01 (b) of
this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties
thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with
their terms;

      (e)   that the BI Financial Arrangement has been ratified by,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BI in accordance with
its terms; and

      (f)   that the LPPI Financial Arrangement has been ratified
by, and is legally binding upon BI and LPPI in accordance with its
terms.

      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  MINISTRY FINANCE                DEPKEU-IA 44319
                  JAKARTA                         DJMLN-IA 45799

       For the Bank:

            International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                   82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                  By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                          Regional Vice President
                                                            Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to such Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in such Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Sub-loans         105,000,000             80%

(2)   Technical
      Assistance under
      Part B of the
      Project             1,100,000             100%
                        ____________

            TOTAL:      106,100,000
                        ============

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan: (i) unless the  Sub-loan has
been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; (ii) until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or On-lending
Agreement, as the case may be, under which the Sub-loan is to be
financed has been approved by the Bank and the Bank has been
furnished with an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Bank, of
counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or On-lending Agreement, as the case may be, has been duly
authorized and ratified by the Borrower or BI, as the case may be,
and the relevant Participating Bank, and is legally binding upon the

Borrower and BI, as the case may be, and such Participating Bank in
accordance with its terms; and (iii) except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, on account of expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank’s
approval, unless such expenditures shall have been made not more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received, in respect of such Sub-loan, the application and informa-
tion required by paragraph 4 (a) of the Schedule to the ProjectAgreement or, in the 
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, not more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received,
in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan, the request and information
required by paragraph 4 (b) of the Schedule to the Project Agree-
ment.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the
capacity of the Participating Banks to finance on a long-term basis,
at market rates, agricultural and agribusiness Investment Enter-
prises, and assist the Participating Banks to develop appropriate
financial services to the agriculture and agribusiness sectors; and
(ii) assist in financing economically, financially and environ-
mentally sound investments in the agriculture and agribusiness
sectors in Indonesia.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     The granting of Sub-loans

Part B:

  (i)       Provision of technical assistance and related services
            to Investment Enterprises to prepare plans and feasibi-
            lity studies for Agricultural Investment Projects and
            Agribusiness Investment Projects, through, inter alia,
            (1) the provision of consultancy services; (2) the
            Technical Assistance Unit; and (3) the Regional Project
            Management Units.

 (ii)       Provision of technical assistance and training to the
            Participating Banks for carrying out Part A of the
            Project, including the services of an Appraisal Advisor,
            an agricultural economist, and an agronomist.

(iii)       Enhancement of the capability of the Participating Banks
            to evaluate, inter alia, the technical, environmental,
            financial and economic aspects of Agricultural Invest-
            ment Projects and Agribusiness Investment Projects,
            through, inter alia, the provision of training.

 (iv)       Management of the Technical Assistance Fund.

                          *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

June 1, 1997                                    1,935,000
December 1, 1997                                2,010,000
June 1, 1998                                    2,085,000
December 1, 1998                                2,170,000
June 1, 1999                                    2,250,000

December 1, 1999                                2,340,000
June 1, 2000                                    2,430,000
December 1, 2000                                2,525,000
June 1, 2001                                    2,620,000
December 1, 2001                                2,720,000
June 1, 2002                                    2,825,000
December 1, 2002                                2,935,000
June 1, 2003                                    3,050,000
December 1, 2003                                3,170,000
June 1, 2004                                    3,290,000
December 1, 2004                                3,415,000
June 1, 2005                                    3,550,000
December 1, 2005                                3,685,000
June 1, 2006                                    3,830,000
December 1, 2006                                3,975,000
June 1, 2007                                    4,130,000
December 1, 2007                                4,290,000
June 1, 2008                                    4,455,000
December 1, 2008                                4,630,000
June 1, 2009                                    4,805,000
December 1, 2009                                4,995,000
June 1, 2010                                    5,185,000
December 1, 2010                                5,385,000
June 1, 2011                                    5,595,000
December 1, 2011                                5,820,000

________________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

      The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the balance outstanding
                                          on the Loan on the day
                                          of prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

Modifications of the General Conditions

      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                  (k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (3)   The words "or for Agricultural Investment Projects or
Agribusiness Investment Projects" are added after the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.

      (4)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:

            "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
      right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
      of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
      the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of the Schedule to the
      Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
      paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been
      received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or
      having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after
      the Remedial Date provided for in Section 3.01 (h) of this
      Agreement any Uncommitted Funds have not been reallocated
      pursuant to the provisions of such Section; or (d) at any
      time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any item is
      inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
      the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures
      in respect of such item which would otherwise have been
      eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e)
      after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
      unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may, by notice to
      the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
      such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
      Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
      or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                            SCHEDULE 5

                           Reallocation

1.    Reallocation of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to Sections
3.01 (h) and (i) shall comply with the following principles:

      (a)   The amount of the Subsidiary Loans shall be reduced in
the amount representing the Uncommitted Funds as of the Reallocation
Date to increase the amount of Subsidiary Loans pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 1(c) of this Schedule;

      (b)   The increase in the amount of the Subsidiary Loans shall
not in the aggregate exceed the aggregate amount of the Subsidiary
Loans being reduced; and

      (c)   The Participating Bank whose respective Subsidiary Loan
is to be increased shall: (i) have fully committed to finance either
approved Sub-loans or free-limit Sub-loans authorized by the Bank to
withdraw from the Loan Account, as the case may be, the respective
amounts which as of the Reallocation Date have been on-lent pursuant
to this Agreement; and (ii) have requests for financing Agricultural
Investment Projects and Agribusiness Investment Projects
representing in the aggregate the amount to be allocated.