World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3305 IND

           (Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated May 3, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3305 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "DIY" means Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta (Special Province
of Yogyakarta);

      (b)   "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year;

      (c)   "hamlet" means a dusun, a unit of a village
(approximately ten hamlets comprise a village);

      (d)   "Project Area" means all 140 upland villages in DIY;

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "upland village" means a village where at least 30% of
the area has slopes exceeding 15%; and

      (g)   "Yogyakarta Rural Development Project" means the Project
described in the Development Credit Agreement (Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project) dated August 13, 1979, between the Borrower and
the Association.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($15,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after   July 1,
                   1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
                   than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, engineering, environmental and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request, including without
                   limitation on the foregoing unaudited accounts,
                   as soon as available, but not later than four
                   months after the end of each such fiscal year.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,

together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:           Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY         44319 DEPKEU-IA
                   Jakarta             45799 DJMLN-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu

Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category              Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                               80%

      (a) Roads and
          bridges                5,300,000

      (b) Other                    200,000

(2)   Equipment and              1,100,000      100% of foreign
      furniture                                 expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Technical                  2,300,000      100%
      assistance

(4)   Training                   1,500,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures;
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category              Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(5)   Village projects           1,100,000      65% of Borrower’s
                                                grants

(6)   For Part A of the
      Project

      (a) Hamlet projects          390,000      90%

      (b) Research funds           590,000      90%

      For Part B of the
      Project

      (c) Hamlet funds for         450,000   90%
          onlending to
          farmers

      (d) Kecamatan projects       410,000      90%

(7)   Land titling, and funds      660,000      90%
      for designing, surveying
      and advising on farmer
      activities

(8)   Unallocated                1,500,000

__________

      TOTAL                     15,500,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   on accounts of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1)(b), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1990; and

      (b)   on account of payments made for expenditures in respect
of Category (1)(a):

            (i)    after April 1, 1992, until the Bank has received
                   evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                   Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                   FY 1992/93, satisfactory to the Bank, for
                   operation and maintenance of the roads
                   constructed or improved under this Project and
                   under the Yogyakarta Rural Development Project;
                   and (B) has made actual expenditures for the
                   operation and maintenance of such roads during
                   FY 1991/92, satisfactory to the Bank;

            (ii)   after April 1, 1993, until the Bank has received
                   evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                   Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                   FY 1993/94 which (1) maintain in real terms
                   financing at the FY 1992/93 level for operation
                   and maintenance of the roads constructed or
                   improved under this Project and under the
                   Yogyakarta Rural Development Project, and (2)
                   provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                   operation and maintenance thereof; and (B) has
                   made actual expenditures for the operation and
                   maintenance of such roads during FY 1992/93,
                   satisfactory to the Bank;

            (iii)  after April 1, 1994, until the Bank has received
                   evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                   Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                   FY 1994/95 which (1) maintain in real terms
                   financing at the FY 1992/93 level for operation
                   and maintenance of the roads constructed or
                   improved under this Project and under the
                   Yogyakarta Rural Development Project, and (2)
                   provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                   operation and maintenance thereof; and (B) has
                   made actual expenditures for the operation and
                   maintenance of such roads during FY 1993/94,
                   satisfactory to the Bank;

            (iv)   after April 1, 1995, until the Bank has received
                   evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                   Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                   FY 1995/96 which (1) maintain in real terms
                   financing at the FY 1992/93 level for operation
                   and maintenance of the roads constructed or
                   improved under this Project and under the

Yogyakarta Rural Development Project, and (2)
                   provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                   operation and maintenance thereof; and (B) has
                   made actual expenditures for the operation and
                   maintenance of such roads during FY 1994/95,
                   satisfactory to the Bank; and

            (v)    after April 1, 1996, until the Bank has received
                   evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                   Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                   FY 1996/97 which (1) maintain in real terms
                   financing at the FY 1992/93 level for operation
                   and maintenance of the roads constructed or
                   improved under this Project and under the
                   Yogyakarta Rural Development Project, and (2)
                   provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                   operation and maintenance thereof; and (B) has
                   made actual expenditures for the operation and
                   maintenance of such roads during FY 1995/96,
                   satisfactory to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to develop a sustainable and
replicable approach to soil stabilization and agricultural
development as a basis for improving incomes and living standards in
upland areas, specifically in Yogyakarta, but also in similar areas
throughout Java.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Upland Productivity and Stabilization

1.    Improvement of microwatershed management of soil water
resources and conservation/productivity to stabilize soil conditions
in about 500 microwatersheds in about 80 upland hamlets, through
activities such as: group planning in construction of runoff control
structures; terrace rehabilitation; ground cover improvement; farm
planning; and development of nurseries.

2.    Establishing, and maintaining Upland Development Support Teams
(UDST) to provide overall support for Project participation, select
the microwatershed sites and conduct rapid rural appraisal of local
conditions.

3.    Development and testing of an improved slope stabilization
technology for the Project Area through an uplands watershed systems
action-research program, involving a multidisciplinary unit of
agricultural scientists and socioeconomists.

4.    Improving on-farm technology by carrying out extension
services and displays throughout the Project Area (approximately 30-
40 villages each year) conducted by subject matter programmers at
rural extension centers and subject matter specialists in Dinas
Pertanian (the district level food crops agency), allowing local
farmers to choose the elements of technology packages that suit
their specific farm conditions, financial and labor constraints.

5.    Provision of goods and technical assistance in support of the
above activities.

Part B:     Upland Community Development

1.    Increasing agricultural productivity as well as off-farm
earnings by:

      (a)   providing loans to assist individuals in about 1,400
hamlets in the Project Area to acquire seasonal inputs and develop

alternative sources of income; and

      (b)   matching grants to about 140 villages in the Project
Area to support productive investment for farm and off-farm
activities.

2.    Training of, and support for: (a) rural development staff at
the district level and below in participatory planning techniques,
administering self-help credit schemes, and generating baseline data
on village-level socioeconomic conditions; and

      (b)   village and hamlet leaders in planning, executing and
monitoring village projects.

Part C:     Infrastructure Development

1.    Upgrading about 175 km of existing village roads and about 20
bridges.

2.    Improved maintenance on roads upgraded under Part C.1 above
and on about 365 km of roads constructed under the Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project, including improved monitoring.

3.    Strengthening: (a) through training, public works agency staff
at provincial and district (Kabupaten) levels to improve capacities
in areas including, selection of road and bridge projects,
construction of roads and monitoring construction and maintenance
activities;

      (b) the capacity of about 420 village leaders in labor-
intensive road construction methods by providing training; and

      (c) public works agency at district (Kabupaten) level through,
inter alia, provision of equipment, vehicles and office buildings.

Part D:     Institution Strengthening

      Strengthening, at the national, provincial and local levels,
the capacity to support and service upland communities and to
coordinate decentralized upland development programs, by providing
training, civil works, equipment, furniture, honoraria, support for
provision of land titles and technical assistance.

                   *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

      December 15, 1996                            285,000
      June 15, 1997                                295,000
      December 15, 1997                            305,000
      June 15, 1998                                315,000
      December 15, 1998                            330,000
      June 15, 1999                                340,000
      December 15, 1999                            355,000
      June 15, 2000                                370,000
      December 15, 2000                            385,000
      June 15, 2001                                400,000
      December 15, 2001                            415,000
      June 15, 2002                                430,000
      December 15, 2002                            445,000
      June 15, 2003                                465,000
      December 15, 2003                            480,000
      June 15, 2004                                500,000
      December 15, 2004                            520,000
      June 15, 2005                                540,000

December 15, 2005                            560,000
      June 15, 2006                                580,000
      December 15, 2006                            605,000
      June 15, 2007                                625,000
      December 15, 2007                            650,000
      June 15, 2008                                675,000
      December 15, 2008                            700,000
      June 15, 2009                                730,000
      December 15, 2009                            760,000
      June 15, 2010                                785,000
      December 15, 2010                            815,000
      June 15, 2011                                840,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 3 of Part A of this Schedule,
contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Computers, equipment and furniture may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
provided that, such items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with

procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Construction of village roads and bridges may be carried out
by force account or by villagers under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank.

Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall, by April 1, 1993, have upgraded the
agricultural research facilities in Yogyakarta to their full
designed capacity, and, thereafter, operate such research stations
on a permanent basis under the Borrower’s Agency for Agricultural
Research Development (Badan Penelitian dan Pengembangan Pertanian
Departemen Pertanian/BADAN LITBANG PERTANIAN).

2.    In order to carry out Schedule 2, Part B.1, the Borrower shall
select subdistrict, village, and hamlet projects in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, which criteria shall include
provisions that the physical and financial supervision of such
projects shall be done by the district agencies.

3.    The Borrower shall ensure that hamlet funds for purchasing
seasonal inputs and developing alternative sources of income under
Schedule 2, Part B.1(a), shall be onlent to individuals at an annual
interest rate not lower than the annual interest rate charged by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia under the BRI KUPEDES Scheme.

4.    With respect to Schedule 2, Part C, the Borrower shall ensure
that:

      (a)   at least 40% of the resources allocated under the Loan
are provided to Gunung Kidul;

      (b)   village roads shall be selected in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   the Provincial public works authorities shall develop by
December 31, 1991 and thereafter apply, a system, satisfactory to
the Bank, to monitor the costs and physical progress of such Part;

      (d)   a system and related Action Plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, of monitoring requirements for road repair and for maintaining
village roads, shall be established by December 31, 1991;

      (e)   district public works authorities shall maintain asphalt
village roads; and

      (f)   prior to the execution of realignment of roads that cut
into slopes, the Bank shall have been furnished with a satisfactory
environmental impact assessment.

5.    The Borrower shall, together with the Bank, conduct a mid-term
review of progress of the Project. Such review shall be held no
later than June 30, 1993, and shall recommend specific steps to
improve progress if necessary, including modifications to Sched-
ule 1 to the Loan Agreement.

6.    The Borrower shall select both the training institutions and
students in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    The Borrower shall ensure that adequate number of vehicles are
available in a timely manner for the purposes of the Project.
8.    The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, the
provincial working group for watershed systems action/research
established by Governor of the Special Province of Yogyakarta Decree
No. 80/TIM/1990, dated November 29, 1990.

9.    The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank, including:

      (a)   by November 30, 1991, completion of the design of
courses for hamlet council microwatershed planning, microwatershed
activity group mobilization, and village level planning and
management; and

      (b)   by November 30, 1991, have in place a land and water
management advisor; community development advisor; outreach program
design specialist; research methodology specialist; socioeconomist;
upland agronomist/soil conservation planner; area development
advisor; and village development monitoring advisor.
SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) -
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this

Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible

expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.