World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3340 IND

         (Sulawesi - Irian Jaya Urban Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 8, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3340 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990,
between Japan and the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the
Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by
Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported
by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter
agreement;

      (C)   Japan has made available to the Borrower a grant (the
Japanese Grant) in an amount of �103,600,000, out of said funds to
assist the Borrower in carrying out a portion of the technical
assistance under the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the agreement entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the Government
of Japan dated February 26, 1991, (hereinafter the "Japanese Grant

Agreement"); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                  "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BAPPEDA" means a Provincial/Local Development Planning
Agency;

      (b)   "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development
Planning Agency;

      (c)   "BPAM" means any Badan Pengelola Air Minum, a water
supply entity at the regional level, established pursuant to the
provisions of the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 29 of 1984 and
Decree No. 269/KPTS/1984 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works,
as any of the same may be amended from time to time;

      (d)   "DGBANGDA" means the Directorate General of Regional
Development in MHA;

      (e)   "DGBM" means the Directorate General Bina Marga
(Highways) in the Borrower’s MPW;

      (f)   "DGCK" means the Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human
Settlements) in the Borrower’s MPW;

      (g)   "DGPUOD" means the Directorate General of Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy in MHA;

      (h)   "DLA" means a domestic lending arrangement to be entered
into between the Borrower and a Participating Local Government, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to such domestic lending arrangement;

      (i)   "DPUK" means the public works department of a local
government or municipality;

      (j)   "DPUP" means the public works department of a province;

      (k)   "expenditure program" means the five year program of
investment and operations and maintenance expenditures (including
the financing plan therefor) for Participating Local Governments as
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank;

      (l)   "Irian Jaya" means the Borrower’s Province of Irian

Jaya;

      (m)   "kampung" means an urban neighborhood;

      (n)   "MHA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs;

      (o)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

      (p)   "MPW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (q)   "PIA" means a Project Implementation Agreement, to be
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Local
Government as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to such implementation agreement;

      (r)   "Participating Local Government" means a local
government or its water enterprise receiving investment funds under
the Loan and listed in the Annex to Schedule 1 of this Agreement;

      (s)   "PDAM" means any Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a regional
water supply enterprise, established pursuant to the provisions of
the Borrower’s Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Instruction No.
26 of 1975 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs, and Joint
Decree of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs No. 3 of 1984 and
the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works No. 26/KPTS of 1984, as any
of the same may be amended from time to time;

      (t)   "PMDU" means the Provincial Monitoring and Development
Units established and operating in the Project Provinces;

      (u)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated September 4, 1989 and September 18,
1989, between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (v)   "Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s Provinces of
Central Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi
and Irian Jaya;

      (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;

      (x)   "Sulawesi" means the Project Provinces, excluding Irian
Jaya; and

      (y) "Water Enterprise" means a BPAM or a PDAM serving, or
which will serve, areas within the Project Provinces.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

"(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause
the Project to be carried out, in accordance with: (i) PIAs, the
terms and conditions of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and
(ii) Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall make funds available
(which funds shall include a portion of the proceeds of the Loan) to
a Participating Local Government under a Domestic Lending
Arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower, through its
Ministry of Finance, and such Participating Local Government, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each PIA
and each DLA in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any PIA or DLA or any provisions
thereof.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall convert all BPAMs in the
Project Provinces into PDAMs in accordance with the following
timetable:

      Bone, Luwu, Gorontalo         by December 31, 1991;
      Jayapura, Sorong              by December 31, 1992;
      Biak, Fak Fak                 by December 31, 1993;
      Manokwari, Nabire             by December 31, 1994; and
      Serui, Wamena                 by December 31, 1995;

and shall prepare an action plan to that effect, including financial
analysis and plans for adjusting tariffs consistent with the
requirements of Section 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, by June 1, 1994, a comprehensive review assessing the
progress of the Project, which review shall emphasize the status of
implementation of the Borrower’s environmental management plans and
resettlement plans and evaluate expenditures relating to operations
and maintenance, and shall revise the expenditure program and
financing plans, as necessary, within the agreed totals for such

program.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, by June 1 of each year of the Project, a review of the
operations and maintenance program of each Participating Local
Government, and shall take all necessary steps to ensure that such
expenditures are at least 90% of the agreed totals for such Local
Government.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1992, have
established and adequately staffed a provincial water enterprise
support unit in Irian Jaya in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, the Project Provinces and the Partici-
pating Local Governments, responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the relevant Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be

relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no PDAM shall incur any debt unless
a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of such PDAM
shows that the projected net revenues of such PDAM for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least
1.3 times the projected debt service requirement of such PDAM in
such year, the previous fiscal year and the next fiscal year on all
debt of such PDAM including the debt to be incurred; provided that,
with respect to the Jayapura PDAM such revenues shall be at least
1.5 times such projected debt service requirement; (b) no PDAM debt
shall be more than 70% of its total capitalization; and (c) each
BPAM or PDAM produces for each of its fiscal years (i) through March
31, 1994 for BPAMs and through December 31, 1993 for PDAMs, gross
revenues from all sources equivalent to not less than its operating
expenses, and (ii) after March 31, 1994 for BPAMs and after December
31, 1993 for PDAMs, gross revenues from all sources equivalent to
not less than the sum of its operating expenses and depreciation.
For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a PDAM
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after
                  the date on which it is originally incurred;

           (ii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or further modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into;

          (iii)   the term "net revenues of such PDAM" means gross
                  revenues of a PDAM from all sources, adjusted to
                  take account of such PDAM tariffs in effect at
                  the time of the incurrence of debt even though
                  they were not in effect during the twelve-month
                  period to which such revenues related, less all
                  operating expenses of a PDAM, including expenses
                  accountable to administration, maintenance and
                  taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
                  provision for depreciation of assets and interest
                  and other charges on debt;

           (iv)   the term "debt service requirement" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt;

            (v)   the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by a PDAM in the fiscal year in which
                  the debt in question is to be incurred, which
                  both the Bank and the PDAM accept as reasonable
                  and as to which the Bank has notified the PDAM of
                  its acceptability, provided that no event has
                  occurred since such notification which has, or
                  may reasonably be expected in the future to have,
                  a material adverse effect on the financial
                  condition or future operating results of such
                  PDAM;

           (vi)   the term "total capitalization" means debt plus
                  equity;

          (vii)   the term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of a PDAM not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities;

         (viii)   the term "gross revenues from all sources" means

the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                  water operation, house connections, and cash
                  consumer contributions in aid of construction,
                  but excluding non-operating income and any other
                  cash inflows;

           (ix)   the term "operating expenses" means the sum of
                  all expenses related to water operations,
                  including maintenance and administration, but
                  excluding depreciation;

            (x)   the term "depreciation" means the annual
                  provision charged against revenues to depreciate,
                  on a basis acceptable to the Bank, the current
                  value of the water fixed assets in operation as
                  valued from time to time in accordance with
                  methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank;
                  and

           (xi)   whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of currency
                  of the Borrower; debt payable in another
                  currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, with the absence of such
                  rate on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.03. By April 1, 1992, and thereafter by January 1,
1994 and January 1, 1996, the Borrower shall cause each
Participating Local Government and each Water Enterprise:

      (a)   to adjust its tariffs on the basis of realistic
forecasts after reviewing the adequacy of its tariffs, to meet the
requirements set out in Section 4.02 of this Agreement for the next
two years; and

      (b)   to furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon
completion.

      Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no Participating Local Government
shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenditures of such Participating Local Government shows that
the projected non-grant and local revenues for a fiscal year minus
the projected routine account expenditure on staff administration
and routine operational and maintenance needs of such Participating
Local Government for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement of such Participating Local Government in such year on
all debt of such Participating Local Government including the debt
to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a
                  Participating Local Government maturing by its
                  terms more than one year after the date on which
                  it is originally incurred;

           (ii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or further modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into;

          (iii)   the term "debt service requirement" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other

charges on, debt;

           (iv)   the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by a Participating Local Government in
                  the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
                  to be incurred, which both the Bank and the
                  Participating Local Government accept as rea-
                  sonable and as to which the Bank has notified the
                  Participating Local Government of its accept-
                  ability, provided that no event has occurred
                  since such notification which has, or may
                  reasonably be expected in the future to have, a
                  material adverse effect on the financial
                  condition or operating results of such
                  Participating Local Government;

            (v)   whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of currency
                  of the Borrower, debt payable in another
                  currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, with the absence of such
                  rate on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of any PDAM or for the suspension of its operations; and

      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, can- cellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY               45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                   44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji

Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) DLA subprojects           23,000,000        90%

(2) Central
    Government
    funded:

    (a)  Civil works by       36,520,000        85%
         contract

    (b)  Civil works by        1,000,000        60%
         force account

    (c)  Goods                15,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

    (d)  Consultant           13,680,000        100%
         services and
         training

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Refunding of               1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(4) Unallocated                9,300,000
                             ___________

    TOTAL                    100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that

withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1991; (b)
under Category (1) with respect to any Participating Local
Government and Water Enterprise for such Local Government until the
DLA for such Local Government, and the DLA with respect to the
relevant Water Enterprise has been signed by the respective
authorities; and (c) under Categories (2) (a), (b), (c) and (d) with
respect to any Participating Local Government until the PIA for such
Local Government has been signed by the respective authorities.

                             ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1

SULAWESI

City (Local Government)       PIA         DLA         Water DLA

Gorontalo                      X           X             X
Bitung                         X           X             X
Manado                         X           X             X
Palu (Donggala)                X           X             X
Kendari                        X
Ujung Pandang                  X           X
Watampone (Bone)               X           X             X
Palopo (Luwu)                  X           X             X
Pare Pare                      X           X

IRIAN JAYA

City (Local Government)

Jayapura                                                 X
Biak
Sorong
Fak Fak
Nabire
Manokwari
Wamena
Serui

                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve urban
infrastructure in selected cities in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Support for urban infrastructure improvement in nine cities in
Sulawesi, including investment, rehabilitation, operations and
maintenance expenditures, by providing civil works and equipment for
the following subsectors: water supply, urban roads, kampung
improvement, market infrastructure improvement, solid waste
management, drainage, and sanitation.

Part B:

      Support for rehabilitation and expansion of piped water supply
systems in eight cities in Irian Jaya, by providing civil works and
equipment.

Part C:

1.    Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity at central and
provincial levels in design and construction supervision, project
management, monitoring and evaluation (including environmental and
financial aspects), by providing technical assistance.

2.    (a)   Strengthening the ability of local governments in

Sulawesi to implement revenue improvement action plans,
institutional development action plans, revenue administration
reforms and operations and maintenance management systems, by
providing technical assistance.

      (b)   Strengthening provincial level water enterprise support
units, including the establishment of such a unit in Irian Jaya, and
training of staff of local governments and water enterprises in the
Project Provinces, by providing technical assistance.

3.    Preparation of future urban infrastructure projects in the
Project Provinces.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

February 15, 1997                               1,825,000
August 15, 1997                                 1,895,000
February 15, 1998                               1,965,000
August 15, 1998                                 2,045,000
February 15, 1999                               2,120,000
August 15, 1999                                 2,205,000
February 15, 2000                               2,290,000
August 15, 2000                                 2,380,000
February 15, 2001                               2,470,000
August 15, 2001                                 2,565,000
February 15, 2002                               2,665,000
August 15, 2002                                 2,770,000
February 15, 2003                               2,875,000
August 15, 2003                                 2,985,000
February 15, 2004                               3,100,000
August 15, 2004                                 3,220,000
February 15, 2005                               3,345,000
August 15, 2005                                 3,475,000
February 15, 2006                               3,610,000
August 15, 2006                                 3,750,000
February 15, 2007                               3,895,000
August 15, 2007                                 4,045,000
February 15, 2008                               4,200,000
August 15, 2008                                 4,360,000
February 15, 2009                               4,530,000
August 15, 2009                                 4,705,000
February 15, 2010                               4,890,000
August 15, 2010                                 5,075,000
February 15, 2011                               5,275,000
August 15, 2011                                 5,470,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

  Time of Prepayment                       Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment

multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided however, that pipeline
network rehabilitation works and installation of additional service
connections, up to an aggregate value of $2,300,000 equivalent, may
be carried out under force account procedures.

2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of $12,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Miscellaneous goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $700,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated

to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and each contract for
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the respective Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation

      The Borrower shall carry out and cause to be carried out the
Project in accordance with the following:

1.    (a)   Overall coordination and guidance will be provided by
the Urban Development Coordination Team (TKPP) with the assistance
of the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Management Group (IMG);

      (b)  DGCK will function as the lead implementation agency;

      (c)   DGCK and DGBM, with the support of the Central Project
Management and Finance Offices, are responsible for technical
supervision and implementation of all infrastructure investments and
operations and maintenance under national responsibility; and

      (d)   DGPUOD and DGBANGDA will be responsible for
institutional and human resource development.

2.    With respect to Part A of the Project (Sulawesi):

      (a)   DPUPs for Sulawesi will provide specialized engineering
services as well as financial, management and training advisory
services;

      (b)   BAPPEDAs supported by higher levels of government and by
Project Management and Finance Offices are responsible for
coordination of field-level planning and implementation; and

(c)   DPUKs and PDAMs will implement all infrastructure
investments and operations and maintenance under local government
responsibility.

3.    With respect to Part B of the Project (Irian Jaya):

      (a)   overall management will be the responsibility of a
Project Management Unit (PMU) under the central government water
supply project implementation agency under DGCK, and implementation
activities in Jayapura financed with borrowed funds will be managed
by the Jayapura PDAM; and

      (b)   Project Implementation Units in each city participating
in the Project will report to the PMU referred to above.

4.    With respect to Part C of the Project:

      (a)   DGPUOD will implement subcomponents concerned with
revenue administration and financial accounting and management;

      (b)   DGBANGDA will implement the subcomponent concerned with
institutional and human resource development;

      (c)   MHA and DGCK will implement training in integrated urban
infrastructure development programming; and

      (d)   Within the overall coordination framework referred to in
paragraph 1 (a) above, DGCK will implement preparation of future
projects.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special

Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.