World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3272 ME

                    (Basic Health Care Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                       Dated April 12, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3272 ME

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Acuerdo de Coordinacion" means the Coordination Agree-
ment for Organic Integration and Operative Decentralization (Acuerdo
de Coordinacion para la Integracion Organica y Descentralizacion
Operativa) entered into between the Guarantor and the state of
Guerrero on June 11, 1985;

      (b)   "CECADE" means the SSA’s Training and Development Center
(Centro de Capacitacion y Desarrollo);

      (c)   "CONALEP" means the Guarantor’s Technical Education
Institution (Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional y Tecnica);

      (d)   "Contralorias" means the state controllership unit in
each of the Project States;

      (e)   "COPLADE" means the State Committee for Planning and
Development (Comite de Planificacion y Desarrollo Estatal) of each
of the Project States;

      (f)   "Decentralization Action Plan" means the plan, contained
in the September 21, 1990 letter to the Bank from the Secretario of
the SSA, including its attachment entitled Programa de Actividades
Tendentes a Lograr la Descentralizacion de los Servicios de Salud a
Poblacion Abierta -- Chiapas, Distrito Federal, Hidalgo, Oaxaca
(Program of Activities Tending to Accomplish Decentralization of
Health Services for the Uninsured Population -- Chiapas, Distrito
Federal, Hidalgo, Oaxaca), which describes a series of actions
designed to achieve, according to an approximate timetable, the
gradual transfer of powers and responsibilities regarding the Gua-
rantor’s health care and nutrition sectors from the Guarantor to the
governments of the Distrito Federal and the states of Chiapas,
Hidalgo and Oaxaca;

      (g)   "Federal PCU" means the project coordination unit
maintained by the Guarantor within SSA pursuant to Section 3.03 of
the Guarantee Agreement;

      (h)   "HMIS" means the Health Management Information System
which SSA began implementing in 1986 to standardize and gather
health statistics for the purpose of generating information needed
to manage activities within the health sector;

      (i)   "HMIS Plan" means the plan for HMIS improvement referred
to in Section 3.14 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (j)   "Human Resources Training Plans" means the plans, one
for each of the Project States, prepared by SSA and SESA as set
forth in Sections 3.07 (c) and 3.12 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (k)   "IMSS/Solidaridad" means the health care program for
disadvantaged sectors of the population administered by the Mexican
Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social), a
joint Guarantor/labor/management entity;

      (l)   "Hospital Infantil" means the Guarantor’s Mexican

Children’s Hospital "Dr. Federico Gomez" (Hospital Infantil de
Mexico "Dr. Federico Gomez"),  which, under contract with SSA, shall
carry out studies under Part C of the Project;

      (m)   "Institutional Development Plans" means the plans, one
for each of the Project States, prepared by SSA and SESA as set
forth in Sections 3.07 (d) and 3.13 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (n)   "Maintenance Plans" means the plans, one for each of the
Project States, prepared by SSA and SESA with regard to maintenance
of health facilities, vehicles and equipment and the training of
maintenance personnel for purposes of the Project, as referred to in
Sections 3.07 (c) and 3.10 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (o)   "M&E Indicators" means the indicators to be used in
monitoring and evaluating the Project, provided by SSA to the Bank
in a 1990 document entitled Manual para la Evaluacion de los
Servicios de Salud, Indicadores de Salud (Manual for the Evaluation
of Health Services, Health Indicators);

      (p)   "Participation Agreements" means the agreements entered
into between the Guarantor and the Project States referred to in
Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (q)   "Solidaridad-SSA" means the Health Care Program for the
Uninsured Population (Programa de Apoyo de Servicios de Salud para
la Poblacion Abierta), a program developed by SSA, as described in
an SSA document entitled Propuesta de Programa de Apoyo de Servicios
de Salud para la Poblacion Abierta (Proposed Health Care Program for
the Uninsured Population) and dated November 1989, to deliver health
services to poor sectors of the population in the territory of the
Guarantor that lack health insurance, as such program may be amended
from time to time in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Agreement and of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (r)   "Project State PCU" means the project coordination units
maintained by the Guarantor within the Territorial Entities of the
SSA in the Distrito Federal and the states of Chiapas, Hidalgo and
Oaxaca pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement, as well
as the project coordination unit maintained by the state of Guerrero
within SESA pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (s)   "Project States" means the Distrito Federal and the
states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca located within the
territory of the Guarantor;

      (t)   "SECOGEF" means the Guarantor’s Controllership Secreta-
riat (Secretaria de la Contraloria General de la Federacion);

      (u)   "SESA" means the Health Services of the state of
Guerrero (Servicios Estatales de Salud);

      (v)   "SHAs" means State Health Agencies and refers to (i) the
agencies in the governments of the Project States which shall become
successors to the Territorial Entities of the SSA pursuant to the
Decentralization Action Plan and (ii) SESA;

      (w) "SHCP" means the Guarantor’s Finance Secretariat
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);

      (x)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (y)   "SPP" means the Guarantor’s Programming and Budgeting
Secretariat (Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto);

      (z)   "SSA" means the Guarantor’s Health Secretariat
(Secretaria de Salud) and includes the Territorial Entities of the
SSA;

      (aa)  "Staffing Normalization Letter" means the letter,
delivered to the Bank by SSA and dated September 21, 1990, as

referred to in Section 3.11 of the Guarantee Agreement; and

      (bb)  "Territorial Entities of the SSA" means the SSA’s
Servicios de Salud Publica in the Distrito Federal and Servicios
Coordinados de Salud Publica in each of the states of Chiapas,
Hidalgo and Oaxaca.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred eighty million dollars ($180,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semes-
ter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, provi-
ding, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to the
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to
the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual
arrangements.

      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out:  (i) by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.18 of the Guarantee Agreement, with
regard to parts of the Project carried out by the Guarantor; and
(ii) by each of the Project States pursuant to Section 3.06 (c) of
the Guarantee Agreement, with regard to parts of the Project carried
out by the Project States.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.16 of the Guarantee Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound account-
ing practices, the resources and expenditures in connection with the
execution of the Project.

(b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
                  accepted auditing standards and procedures
                  consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank each month certified state-
                  ments of the Special Account; and

           (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, separate records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such separate records and accounts
                  are included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to sup-port the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
one of the Project States has failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under any of the Participation Agreements, referred to in
Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 3.08 of the Guarantee Agreement, to which it
is a party. In such a case, the Bank may, after consultation with
and by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, only suspend in
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account for expenditures incurred either by the Project
State in question or any municipality or other jurisdiction thereof,
or for purposes of benefitting the health care and nutrition sector
of that Project State specifically. At the request of the Guarantor,
the Bank may reallocate Loan proceeds subject to such suspension to
Project States which are in compliance with their Participation

Agreements.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the suspension referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
have been in effect for all Project States simultaneously for a
continuous period of 90 days.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Guarantor, through SSA and SPP, and all Project
States shall have entered into the Participation Agreements referred
to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (b)   that the Borrower and the Guarantor shall have entered
into the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (c)   that Maintenance Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, have
been presented to the Bank for at least three of the Project States;

      (d)   that Human Resources Training Plans, satisfactory to the
Bank, have been presented to the Bank for at least three of the
Project States; and

      (e)   that draft contracts and a short list of consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank, for preparation of Institutional Develop-
ment Plans, have been presented to the Bank for each Project State.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   on behalf of the Guarantor, that the Participation
Agreements referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of the Guarantee
Agreement, and the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement,
have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Guarantor and are legally binding upon the
Guarantor in accordance with their terms;

      (b)   on behalf of each of the Project States, that the
Participation Agreements referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of
the Guarantee Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, each of those Project
States and are legally binding upon each of those Project States in
accordance with their terms;

      (c)   on behalf of the Guarantor, that, as part of the showing
set forth in Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, the Gua-
rantee Agreement is legally binding upon the Territorial Entities of
the SSA in accordance with its terms; and

      (d)   on behalf of the Borrower, that the contractual arrange-
ments referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and Section 3.01
of the Guarantee Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and are
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date July 12, 1991 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre Sur, piso 11
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City

                                          Fax:

                                             548-5191

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                  Latin America and the Caribbean

                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                        By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villarreal
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works               32,000,000        75%

(2) Equipment and             46,500,000        100% of foreign
    furniture                                   expenditures, 100%
    (excluding                                  of local expendi-
    vehicles)                                   tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Ambulances and all-          500,000        100%
    terrain (four
    wheel drive)
    vehicles

(4) Training,                 14,000,000        100%
    technical
    assistance
    and studies

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Incremental               69,000,000        100% until
    salaries and                                withdrawals
    incremental                                 under this
    operating costs                             Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $9,000,000;
                                                then 90% until
                                                withdrawals
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $25,000,000;
                                                then 75% until
                                                withdrawals
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $43,000,000; then
                                                50% until with-
                                                drawals under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $58,000,000; and
                                                25% thereafter

(6) Unallocated               18,000,000
                              __________

    TOTAL                    180,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor; and

      (c)   the term "incremental salaries" means salaries of
personnel hired under Part A.2 of the Project, and the term "incre-
mental operating costs" means operating costs incurred under Part
A.1 of the Project, plus costs incurred for travel and subsistence
in connection with training or incurred in the course of Project
supervision activities carried out by SSA and SHA staff, if such
salaries or operating costs would not have been incurred absent
the Project. In the case of personnel in the Federal PCU, the term
"incremental salaries" does not include salaries for personnel other
than the project director and the four experts referred to in the
letter cited in Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement. In the case
of personnel in the Project State PCUs, the term "incremental
salaries" does not include salaries for personnel other than the
project director and the two experts referred to in the letter cited
in Sections 3.04 and 3.07 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (1) through (5) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after June 15, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to (a) strengthen and extend
basic health care services and targeted nutrition assistance to
approximately 13 million poor in the Project States who lack health
insurance, (b) support institutional improvements to strengthen the
management capability, efficiency and effectiveness of SSA and the
SHAs and (c) promote the gradual transfer of powers and respon-
sibilities regarding the Guarantor’s health care and nutrition
sectors from the Guarantor to the Project States.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Provision of Health and Nutrition Services

1.    Physical Resources

      Improve delivery by SSA and the SHAs of health and nutrition
services in the Project States through Solidaridad-SSA by (a) uti-
lizing and constructing, expanding or rehabilitating hospitals,
urban and rural health centers, an antirabic center, warehouses and
maintenance shops in the Project States, (b) acquiring, installing
and utilizing furniture and equipment for such physical facilities,
(c) acquiring and utilizing ambulances and vehicles to be used for
maintenance, supervision, delivery and administrative purposes in
connection with health and nutrition services in the Project States,
(d) carrying out maintenance of such physical facilities, vehicles
and equipment according to the Maintenance Plans, and (e) acquiring,
distributing and utilizing basic drugs and medical and office
supplies to support health care delivery in the Project States.

2.    Human Resources

Provide for proper staffing of the Federal PCU, Project State
PCUs, SSA and the SHAs to deliver health and nutrition services in
the Project States through Solidaridad-SSA by (a) hiring, reassign-
ing and regrading doctors, nurses, dentists, technicians, auxilia-
ries and other health or administrative personnel, (b) designing
and implementing effective systems to supervise such personnel,
(c) training such personnel and their supervisors according to the
Human Resources Training Plans and (d) producing and distributing
operational manuals and materials for such personnel.

Part B:  Institutional Development

1.    Administration

      Provide technical assistance to SSA and the SHAs to: (a)
facilitate implementation of the Decentralization Action Plan,
(b) prepare operational guidelines for the delivery of health and
nutrition services, (c) improve their planning methodologies,
(d) define the allocation of powers and responsibilities regarding
health and nutrition services among regions and municipalities
within each of the Project States, (e) develop and apply sound
personnel and supervision policies, (f) prepare and carry out the
Maintenance Plans, Human Resources Training Plans and Institutional
Development Plans, (g) assist in carrying out the mid-term review of
the Project, (h) prepare environmental impact and waste disposal
studies for civil works to be performed under the Project and (i)
design a new prototype for rural, space-efficient hospitals.

2.    Budget and Inventory Control

      Provide technical assistance and materials and equipment to
develop within SSA and the SHAs a computerized budgetary system for
financial accounting and control, together with a computerized
inventory control system to monitor purchases and distribution of
drugs and medical and office supplies.

3.    Information System

      Provide technical assistance and equipment to SSA and the SHAs
to revitalize the HMIS.

4.    Accounting and Auditing

      Provide: (a) training in accounting, finance, management
information systems and in appropriate computer software to those
staffers in the SHAs, or in the governments of municipalities or
other jurisdictions within the Project States, in charge of record-
keeping, treasury, budget handling and general administrative
functions; and (b) training in accounting, public sector auditing
and related areas to staff in the Contralorias.

Part C:     Research

      Carry out research studies by SSA through Hospital Infantil,
other research institutions and the Project States on topics such as
evaluation of innovative health services, demand, supply and quality
of health sector human resources, and the epidemiological
transition, all as relate to the territory of the Project States.
Such studies shall include a study by SSA on health sector resource
allocation and mobilization, which study shall present
recommendations including (a) criteria to be used for cost recovery
mechanisms and for implementation of such criteria and (b) methods
for promoting provision of health services by the private sector.

                  *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

         beginning March 1, 1996                7,500,000
         through   September 1, 2007

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured by SSA under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for
goods or $5,000,000 or more for civil works.

3.    All procurement of goods and civil works, whether or not
international competitive bidding applies, shall take place using
standard bidding documents which are satisfactory to the Bank.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures

described in Part A (1) hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $27,600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such works
shall be procured by the Project States, under supervision by the
Federal PCU, and shall not include construction, expansion or
rehabilitation of hospitals.

2.    (a)   Civil works (also excluding construction, expansion or
rehabilitation of hospitals) estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (b) civil
works (also excluding construction, expansion or rehabilitation of
hospitals) estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $40,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an additional aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,000,000, may be carried out by force account (in
the case of force account works, the Bank shall not finance labor
costs). Works covered by this paragraph shall be procured by the
Project States under supervision by the Federal PCU.

3.    Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $250,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,300,000 for drugs and medical
supplies and $8,700,000 for other goods, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Goods covered by this paragraph shall be procured by SSA.

4.    Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 for drugs and medical supplies and
$3,000,000 for other goods, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Goods covered by this
paragraph shall be procured by the Project States under supervision
by the Federal PCU.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract subject to inter-
national competitive bidding, (ii) the first contract for civil
works subject to local competitive bidding in each of the Project
States, and (iii) the first contract for goods subject to local
competitive bidding in each of the Project States, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the

contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be fur-
nished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Guarantor and the SHAs in carrying out
the Project, the Guarantor and/or the SHAs shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,

withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Sche-
dule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

7.    Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall
be made from the Special Account for expenditures incurred by, or
for purposes of benefitting the health and nutrition sectors speci-
fically of, a Project State or any municipality or other juris-
diction therein, once the Bank has issued the notice referred to in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement regarding that Project State.