World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3343 POL

                (Agricultural Development Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 10, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3343 POL

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by the
National Bank of Poland (NBP) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NBP the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance (the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate amount
equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth in
agreements (Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the

Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and NBP;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and NBP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NBP pursuant to paragraph 1 of
Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to
be provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "Act" means the Act dated January 31, 1989 of the
Borrower’s Council of State, on the National Bank of Poland, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Zlotys" means Zlotys in the currency of the Borrower;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Lending Agreement" means any agreement to be
entered into between NBP and a Participating Bank pursuant to
paragraph B (1) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and
"Subsidiary Lending" means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary
Lending Agreement;

      (g)   "Participating Bank" means a banking institution with
which NBP has entered into a Subsidiary Lending Agreement;

      (h)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any agreement to
be entered into between a Participating Bank and a Participating
Cooperative Bank pursuant to paragraph 4 (a) of Part B of the Annex
to the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and "Subsidiary Finance"
means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

      (i)   "Participating Cooperative Bank" means any local
cooperative bank with which a Participating Bank has entered into a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

(j)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan by a Participating
Bank or a Participating Cooperative Bank to a Beneficiary for a Sub-
project;

      (k)   "Beneficiary" means an individual entrepreneur, a rural
cooperative or an enterprise to which a Participating Bank or
Participating Cooperative Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan; and

      (l)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by NBP on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary
under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in
NBP on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed

as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, technical and financial practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Accounts
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   NBP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that NBP will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NBP to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NBP or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   Cofinancing Agreements, other than those referred to in

Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, providing for loans and grants
in an aggregate amount equivalent to twenty million dollars
($20,000,000) shall have failed to become effective by October 31,
1992, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however,
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that:

                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and

                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and conditions consistent
                        with the obliga-tions of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and NBP;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NBP;

      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
Cofinancing Agreements, providing for loans and grants in an
aggregate amount equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement;

      (c)   the national cooperative development unit referred to in
Part A (1) of the Project has been established in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this

Agreement;

      (d)   the capital fund referred to in Part A (3) of the
Project has been established in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 5 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and

      (e)   at least one Subsidiary Lending Agreement has been
entered into on behalf of NBP and a Participating Bank.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NBP, and is legally binding upon NBP in accordance with
its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NBP and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NBP in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            00-916 Warszawa
            ul. Swietokrzyska 12
            Republic of Poland

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINF                      814386 PL
                  Poland

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

By /s/ Jacek Tomorowicz
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to finance 80% of
the withdrawals made by each Beneficiary under its respective Sub-
loan.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in promoting rural
development within the Borrower’s territory through the financing of
productive facilities and resources in rural areas, strengthening of
the cooperative banking system and restructuring of priority
agricultural cooperative subsectors.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     The Borrower

(1)   (a)   The establishment and operation of a national
cooperative development unit, supported by regional cooperative
service units, to be responsible for: (i) (A) the design and
carrying out of a program of management and staff training and
professional advice to assist rural cooperatives, including
marketing, dairy and horticulture cooperatives, in strengthening
their organization, management and operations and in facilitating
their restructuring into member-controlled, market-oriented
cooperatives, and (B) the provision of basic training and
professional advice to local cooperative banks in cooperative
organization and practices; and (ii) the review of the existing
regulatory framework applicable to rural cooperatives in order to
identify the measures required to ensure that such framework will be
responsive to the special requirements of the rural cooperative
system and its developmental potential; and (b) the provision of
office space, office equipment and furniture, vehicles, staff and
staff training and experts’ services required for the carrying out
of this subpart of the Project.

(2)   (a) The design and carrying out of: (i) a program of
management and staff training and professional advice to assist
local and regional cooperative banks in strengthening their
management and operations, including the development and application
of suitable policies for the management of resources and appropriate
lending policies and procedures, and (ii) a review of the existing
regulatory framework applicable to the cooperative banking system in
order to identify the measures required to ensure that such
framework will be responsive to the special requirements of the
cooperative banking system and its developmental potential; and (b)
the provision of office space and equipment, vehicles, staff and
experts’ services required for the carrying out of this subpart of
the Project.

(3)   The establishment and operation of a capital fund to assist
local cooperative banks in the establishment and capitalization of
regional cooperative banks.

(4)   The carrying out of a study to determine the nature of and
demand for credit in rural areas.

Part B:     NBP

(1)   The establishment and operation of a credit facility designed
to contribute to the economic and social development of rural areas
through the financing of specific development projects within these
areas.

(2)   The development and implementation of a monitoring system for
the collection and dissemination of information on preferential
credit for the food economy.

                          *      *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                         Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1

      beginning December 1, 1996
      through December 1, 2007                4,165,000

On June 1, 2008                               4,205,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years

before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Part A of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through its
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy and shall employ
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, in order to assist in the carrying out of
the said Part A.

2.    The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain the cooperative
development unit and its regional cooperative service units referred
to in Part A (1) of the Project under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank; (b) provide said units with all needed
facilities and resources to enable them efficiently to carry out
their functions, including the carrying out of the program and
review referred to in said Part A (1); and (c) ensure the
appointment, with qualification, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, (i) by December 31, 1991, of the Executive
Director of the said cooperative development unit and of a
cooperative management adviser, cooperative training advisor and a
cooperative development advisor to assist said Executive Director
and (ii) promptly as needed, of such adequate number of specialists
as agreed with the Bank, to support said cooperative development
unit and its regional cooperative service units in the performance
of their activities under Part A (1) of the Project.

3.    The Borrower shall maintain suitable arrangements with a
national organization of regional cooperative banks, acceptable to
the Bank, pursuant to which said organization shall assist the
Borrower in the coordination and supervision of the carrying out of
the program and review referred to in Part A (2) of the Project.

4.    The Borrower shall prepare, taking into consideration the
conclusions and recommendations of the review referred to in Part A
(1) of the Project, and submit, by June 30, 1992, to its Parliament
(Sejm) a draft cooperative law which the Bank agrees is responsive
to the special requirements of the rural cooperative system and its
developmental potential.

5.    The Borrower shall establish and operate the capital fund (the
Capital Fund) under Part A (3) of the Project through NBP under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the
guidelines referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph. The
initial amount of the Capital Fund at the time it is established
shall not be less than the equivalent of $10,000,000, and the
Borrower undertakes to increase such amount at least by the
equivalent of $10,000,000 by the time 90% of the initial amount of
the Capital Fund shall have been utilized pursuant to subparagraph
(a) hereof. In order to provide for the proper operation of the
Capital Fund, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the resources of
the Capital Fund shall be utilized (i) initially to purchase long-
term bonds issued by local cooperative banks with the proceeds
thereof being utilized by said banks in the establishment and
capitalization of regional cooperative banks, and (ii) subsequently
to grant loans to regional cooperative banks to assist them in
strengthening their banking facilities and operations; and (b)
maintain a managing committee with membership, resources and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank to develop and supervise the
application by NBP of policies and procedures for the operation of
the Capital Fund and the utilization of its resources, including
criteria for the selection of cooperative banks eligible to
participate in the utilization of such resources and the terms and
conditions applicable to such utilization.

6.    The Borrower shall: (a) consult with NBP and representatives
of commercial and other banks in the carrying out of the study under
Part A (4) of the Project; and (b) employ consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the said
study.

B.    Part B of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to NBP
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NBP under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include those set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.

2.    The Borrower shall: (a) cause NBP to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
NBP therein set forth, take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NBP to perform such
obligations, and not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (b) exercise
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish
the purpose of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

3.    The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project
shall be carried out by NBP pursuant to paragraph A.2 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

                      ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

                   Terms and Conditions of the
                     Subsidiary Loan Agreement
      The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of
paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

(1)   The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be:

      (a)   the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal
of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof through the
Participating Banks and the Participating Cooperative Banks; and

      (b)   denominated in dollars and Zlotys, with the portion
thereof denominated in dollars being the sum total of the Sub-loans
made out of its proceeds and denominated in dollars, and with the
portion thereof denominated in Zlotys being the sum total of the
Sub-loans made out of its proceeds and denominated in Zlotys.

(2)   The portion of the Subsidiary Loan denominated in:

      (a)   dollars shall be charged, on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding form time to time, interest during
each six-month period commencing on January 1 and July 1 of each
calendar year at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, as shall be
calculated by the Borrower on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
the Bank; and

      (b)   Zlotys shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at the same
rate charged from time to time by NBP on similar loans denominated
in Zlotys and made out of its own resources in accordance with its
applicable policies, minus a margin, as shall be determined by the
Borrower on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank.

(3)   The Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid to the Borrower over a
period of 17 years, inclusive of a grace period of five years.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for Sub-projects
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the

General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Part A (1) of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.