World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3302 IND

      (Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated May 3, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3302 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Additional Irrigation Scheme" means an irrigation
scheme located in the Project Area which conforms with technical,
economic and environmental criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and
which the Borrower has selected to be financed under the Loan, with
the prior concurrence of the Bank;

      (b)   "Annual Provincial Project Work Program" means each of
the annual coordinated work programs referred to in paragraph 5 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "Bank Indonesia" means the Borrower’s central bank;

      (d)   "BAPPEDA" means the Borrower’s Provincial Development
Planning Agencies in the Project Area;
      (e)   "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development
Planning Agency;

      (f)   "BPN" means the Borrower’s Badan Pertanahan Nasional
(National Land Board);

      (g)   "Deferred Irrigation Scheme" means any of the irrigation
schemes listed in Section II of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;

      (h)   "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture in MOA;

      (i)   "DGRLR" means the Directorate General of Reforestation
and Land Rehabilitation in MOF;

      (j)   "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (k)   "efficient operation and maintenance" means those
operation and maintenance activities of a routine nature, necessary
to provide the planned service to water users and to fully maintain
the system (without separate rehabilitation or upgrading programs)
in a condition to function as planned on into the future;

      (l)   "First Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated January 13, 1990 and March 22, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (m)   "Fiscal Year" and the acronym "FY" mean the Borrower’s
fiscal year beginning April 1 and ending March 31;

      (n)   "Go-Ahead Irrigation Scheme" means any of the irrigation
schemes listed in Section I of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;

      (o)   "MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;

      (p)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry;

      (q)   "MOT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transmigration;

      (r)   "PRAS" means the Borrower’s Provincial Agriculture
Services in the Project Area;
      (s)   "PRFS" means the Borrower’s Provincial Forestry Services
in the Project Area;

      (t)   "PRIS" means the Borrower’s Provincial Water Resources

Services in the Project Area;

      (u)   "Project Area" means the area comprising the respective
areas of each Sub-project located in the Borrower’s provinces of
Aceh, Riau, Lampung, Bengkulu, West Sumatra, South Sumatra, West
Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, North Sulawesi,
Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, and South East Sulawesi;

      (v)   "Second Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated August 15, 1990 and December 18, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (x)   "Sub-project" means each Go-Ahead Irrigation Scheme,
Deferred Irrigation Scheme and Additional Irrigation Scheme.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of one hundred twenty-five million dollars
($125,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollar a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
First and Second Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the First and Second Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through DGWRD, DGFCA, PRAS and PRIS, Part B of the Project through
DGWRD and PRIS, Parts C and D of the Project through DGFCA and PRAS,
Part E of the Project through BPN, Part F of the Project through
DGRLR and PRFS, Part G of the Project through MOT, Part H of the
Project through BAPPEDA, PRAS and PRIS, and Part I of the Project
through DGWRD, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
agricultural and environmental practices, standards and criteria,

and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be

relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINISTRY FINANCE          DJMLN JKT 45799
                  Jakarta                   DITJMON JKT 46415
                                            DEPKEU JKT 44319

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President

Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Services                  4,000,000        91%
     under Part A
     of the
     Project

(2)  Civil works              55,500,000        60%
     under Part B
     of the Project

(3)  Civil works              23,300,000        80%
     under Part C of
     the Project

(4)  Civil works and           1,700,000        91%
     services under
     Part D of the
     Project

(5)  Services                 10,500,000        91%
     under Part E of
     the Project

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6)  Services                    600,000        100%
     under Part F
     of the Project

(7)  Civil works               6,500,000        80%
     and services
     under Part G
     of the Project,
     excluding land
     acquisition and
     compensation

(8)  Institutional support     2,500,000        100%
     services and training
     under Part H of the
     Project

(9)  Consultants’ services     9,700,000        100%
     under Part I of the
     Project

(10) Equipment                 1,500,000        100% of foreign
     and materials                              expenditures, 95%
     under Parts A,                             of local expen-
     B, C, D, E and                             ditures (ex-
     H of the Project             factory costs)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items

procured locally

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
Categories         Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(11) Refunding of                500,000        Amount due
     First Project                              pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02
     Advance                                    (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(12) Refunding of                750,000        Amount due
     Second Project                             pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02
     Advance                                    (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(13) Unallocated               7,950,000
                              __________

         TOTAL               125,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:

      (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after August 1, 1990;

      (b)   unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, expenditures in
respect of Categories (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (10) for all
Sub-projects in each of the Borrower’s Provinces in the Project
Area:

            (i)   after June 30, 1992, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1992/93, which provide financing to implement
                  the respective Annual Provincial Project Work
                  Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;

           (ii)   after June 30, 1993, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1993/94, which provide financing to implement
                  the respective Annual Provincial Project Work
                  Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;

           (iii)  after June 30, 1994, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1994/95, which provide financing to implement
                  the respective Annual Provincial Project Work
                  Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;

(iv)  after June 30, 1995, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1995/96, which provide financing to implement
                  the respective Annual Provincial Project Work
                  Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
                  and

            (v)   after June 30, 1996, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1996/97, which provide financing to implement
                  the respective Annual Provincial Project Work
                  Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (c)   expenditures in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4),
(5), (6), (7) and (10) for any given Deferred Irrigation Scheme,
until the Bank has approved the implementation of such Scheme for
financing under the Project;
      (d)   expenditures in respect of Categories (1) through (10)
for any given Additional Irrigation Scheme, until the Bank has
approved the inclusion of such Scheme for financing under the
Project; and

      (e)   unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, expenditures in
respect of Category (2):

            (i)   after June 30, 1992, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1992/93 which (1) maintain in real terms
                  financing for nation-wide irrigation operation
                  and maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level, and (2)
                  provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                  operation and maintenance; and (B) during
                  FY 1991/92, has made actual expenditures for
                  items covered in (e) (i) (A) (1) and (2) above,
                  satisfactory to the Bank;

           (ii)   after June 30, 1993, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1993/94 which (1) maintain in real terms
                  financing for nation-wide irrigation operation
                  and maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level, and (2)
                  provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                  operation and maintenance; and (B) during
                  FY 1992/93, has made actual expenditures for
                  items covered in (e) (ii) (A) (1) and (2) above,
                  satisfactory to the Bank;

          (iii)   after June 30, 1994, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1994/95 which (1) maintain in real terms
                  financing for nation-wide irrigation operation
                  and maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level, and (2)
                  provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                  operation and maintenance; and (B) during
                  FY 1992/93, has made actual expenditures for
                  items covered in (e) (iii) (A) (1) and (2) above,
                  satisfactory to the Bank;

           (iv)   after June 30, 1995, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1995/96 which (1) maintain in real terms
                  financing for nation-wide irrigation operation
                  and maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level, and (2)
                  provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                  operation and maintenance; and (B) during

FY 1993/94, has made actual expenditures for
                  items covered in (e) (iv) (A) (1) and (2) above,
                  satisfactory to the Bank; and

            (v)   after June 30, 1996 until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
                  Borrower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for
                  FY 1996/97 which (1) maintain in real terms
                  financing for nation-wide irrigation operation
                  and maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level, and (2)
                  provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                  operation and maintenance; and (B) during
                  FY 1995/96, has made actual expenditures for
                  items covered in (e) (v) (A) (1) and (2) above,
                  satisfactory to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s
efforts to (i) achieve the potential benefits from the irrigation
schemes in the Project Area through, inter alia, completion and
development of such irrigation schemes, and (ii) strengthen the
institutional capacity and coordination of irrigated agricultural
development in the Project Area.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Surveys, Investigations and Design

1.    Determination of the command area, scope and the technical,
economic and environmental viability of each Sub-project through the
carrying out of surveys and investigations of (i) physical
resources, including water quality and availability, soils, land
capability and environmental assessment, and (ii) socio-economic
factors, including land ownership and compensation, and land
settlement requirements.

2.    Carrying out of designs for Parts B and C of the Project.

Part B:     Completion of Irrigation Works

1.    Completion of the On-going Irrigation Schemes as designed,
including: (i) completion of irrigation and drainage systems
(including some secondary canals and tertiaries); (ii) completion of
control and measuring structures; (iii) completion of maintenance
and access roads; (iv) construction of buildings; and (v) minor
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure (river diversion
structures and irrigation main canals and drainage channels).

2.    Carrying out of activities related to the operation and
maintenance of the Sub-projects up to their completion.

Part C:     Land Clearance and Development

      Carrying out, in the Project Area, of: (i) land clearance,
including de-stumping; and (ii) land development, including leveling
to form terraced fields suitable for rice cultivation (sawah).
Part D:     Agricultural Development

      Carrying out of various agricultural development activities in
the Project Area, including: (i) construction of facilities and
provision of transportation and equipment for agricultural extension
services; (ii) seed multiplication programs; (iii) agronomic and
crop trials; and (iv) training of farmers groups in agricultural
development activities.

Part E:     Land Titling and Certification

Carrying out of land titling activities in each Sub-project,
including (i) cadastral and land use surveys, and (ii) land
certification and issuance of titles.

Part F:     Environmental Protection

1.    Development of a comprehensive data base for a long term
environmental action program in the Project Area, including: (i) a
forest inventory survey prior to land clearance; (ii) a forest
boundary survey to define categories of forest areas surrounding
irrigation command areas; and (iii) surveys of land use in the
catchment areas of the Sub-projects.

2.    Carrying out of (i) an independent supervision of logging
during land clearance, and (ii) the design of soil erosion control
works and activities.

Part G:     Settlements

      For Sub-projects where settlement is necessary:

(i) provision of farm and homestead holdings; (ii) carrying out of
land surveys, land consolidation and land clearance; (iii) con-
construction of housing, access roads, and other public infra-
structure; (iv) transportation of settlers; and (v) carrying out of
initial agricultural development activities within the Sub-projects.

Part H:     Institutional Support Services

      Strengthening of the Borrower’s provincial agencies’
capabilities, in the Project Area, in: (i) planning and program
design; (ii) project and diagnostic analysis; and (iii) insti-
tutional coordination through provision of office space and
equipment, and training in project analysis of one BAPPEDA staff,
one PRAS staff, and one PRIS staff in each province included in the
Project Area.

Part I:     Technical Assistance

      Provision of technical assistance (i) for supervision of
coordinated Project implementation, and (ii) on technical issues
relating to the Sub-projects.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                               ANNEX

Section I: Go-Ahead Irrigation Schemes

      Province                      Scheme Name

      RIAU
                                    Kaiti Samo
                                    Danau Kotorajo
                                    Pauh Pangean
                                    Seberang Gunung

      WEST SUMATRA
                                    Indrapura
                                    Suliti
                                    Bandar Sangkir
                                    Batu Palano
                                    Sungei Betung
                                    Bandar Tanjung
                                    Bandar Sawah Padang

      BENGKULU
                                    Air Nasal Kiri
                                    Air Kedurang
                                    Air Talo Kecil

Air Bengkenang

      LAMPUNG
                                    Way Kulur
                                    Way Jerinjing

      NORTH SULAWESI
                                    Pilohayanga
                                    Marisa
                                    Kembang Merta
                                    Buko

      CENTRAL SULAWESI
                                    Borone
                                    Bangga
                                    Parigi Kanan
                                    Sibayu

      Province                      Scheme Name

      SOUTH SULAWESI
                                    Lakejo
                                    Leang Longrong
                                    Camba Jawaya
                                    Biang Keke V

      SOUTH EAST SULAWESI
                                    Wololu
                                    Watubangga
                                    Andowengga
                                    Wonco III
                                    Katangana

Section II:  Deferred Irrigation Schemes

      Province                      Scheme

      ACEH
                                    Trienggading
                                    Alue Ubay
                                    Pandrah

      RIAU
                                    Nagedang
                                    Doranan
                                    Mantaro
                                    Sei Tambang

      WEST SUMATRA
                                    Batang Sangki II
                                    Sungei Aro
                                    Bandar Panjang
                                    Kayu Bakicuik
                                    Batang Bawan
                                    Batang Tingkaran
                                    Lubuk Tabuan
                                    Sungei Samek
                                    Air Amo
                                    Talang Kemuning
                                    Batang Mimpi
                                    Sitiung II

      Province                      Scheme Name

      LAMPUNG
                                    Way Tulung Mas
                                    Way Ketibung
                                    Way Curup
                                    Way Umpu
                                    Way Rarem
                                    Way Pengubuan
                                    Way Semangka

Way Padang Ratu
                                    Way Nagara Ratu

      SOUTH SUMATRA
                                    Bumi Agung
                                    Air Deras I
                                    Megang Tingkip
                                    Air Gilas
                                    Alun Dua
                                    Air Gegas
                                    Air Satan
                                    Air Malus I
                                    Kesie (I)
                                    Kesie (II)
                                    Air Tupak
                                    Air Tak Berikan
                                    Air Deras II
                                    Air Kenie

      BENGKULU
                                    Muko-Muko Kiri
                                    Air Susup Kanan
                                    Air Semumai Deras
                                    Air Musi Kejalo
                                    Air Ketepang
                                    Air Nasal Kanan
                                    Air Nanto
                                    Air Baes Ketenong
                                    Air Seluma
                                    Air Lais

      Province                      Scheme Name

      NORTH SULAWESI
                                    Didingga
                                    Tongop
                                    Pontak
                                    Sulu Paslaten
                                    Toraut
                                    Bongo
                                    Pulahenti
                                    Pinogaluman

      SOUTH SULAWESI
                                    Aparang Hulu
                                    Padang Sappa
                                    Sadang
                                    Maloso
                                    Kaleana Kanan
                                    Kaleana Kiri
                                    Sanrego

      CENTRAL SULAWESI
                                    Bunta I
                                    Tompe
                                    Sausu Hulu
                                    Puna Kiri
                                    Lambunu
                                    Olaya
                                    Korontua
                                    Olonjonge
                                    Dolago
                                    Torue
                                    Andolea
                                    Malonas
                                    Tambarana
                                    Gumbasa

      Province                      Scheme Name

      SOUTH EAST SULAWESI
                                    Sonay

Baito
                                    Danamulya
                                    Simbume Bawah
                                    Taobonto
                                    Poleang
                                    Roraya
                                    Mowila I
                                    Mowila II

      WEST KALIMANTAN
                                    Sanggau Ledo
                                    Merowi

      CENTRAL KALIMANTAN
                                    Talohen
                                    Trinsing

      SOUTH KALIMANTAN
                                    Batulicin I

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1996                               2,280,000
June 15, 1997                                   2,370,000
December 15, 1997                               2,460,000
June 15, 1998                                   2,555,000
December 15, 1998                               2,655,000
June 15, 1999                                   2,755,000
December 15, 1999                               2,860,000
June 15, 2000                                   2,975,000
December 15, 2000                               3,085,000
June 15, 2001                                   3,205,000
December 15, 2001                               3,330,000
June 15, 2002                                   3,460,000
December 15, 2002                               3,595,000
June 15, 2003                                   3,730,000
December 15, 2003                               3,875,000
June 15, 2004                                   4,025,000
December 15, 2004                               4,180,000
June 15, 2005                                   4,345,000
December 15, 2005                               4,510,000
June 15, 2006                                   4,685,000
December 15, 2006                               4,865,000
June 15, 2007                                   5,055,000
December 15, 2007                               5,250,000
June 15, 2008                                   5,455,000
December 15, 2008                               5,665,000
June 15, 2009                                   5,885,000
December 15, 2009                               6,110,000
June 15, 2010                                   6,345,000
December 15, 2010                               6,590,000
June 15, 2011                                   6,845,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a  percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors

      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Survey, investigation and design services may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; provided, however, that such services may, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, be carried out by force
account.

2.    Irrigation civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $92,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Land clearance and development works may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertisedlocally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Cadastral and land use surveys may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    Land titling and certification services may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
provided, however, that such services may, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,400,000, be carried out by force account.

6.    Agricultural development works and services may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; provided, however, that such works and services may, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, be carried out by force
account.

7.    Settlement works may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that
such works may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000,
be carried out by force account.

8.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that such
contracts may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, be
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

9.    Works and activities for environmental protection and
institutional support may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank or may be carried out by force
account.

Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract: (i) procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule;
(ii) for equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more; and (iii) for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part I of the
Project, the Borrower shall, by August 15, 1991, or such other date
as the Bank may so agree, employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, implement and commission each of the
Go-Ahead Irrigation Schemes, and select, implement and commission
each of the Deferred Irrigation Schemes and Additional Irrigation
Schemes, in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with the
Bank; provided, however, that, for all Additional Irrigation Schemes
and Deferred Irrigation Schemes, the Borrower shall cause DGWRD to
undertake environmental assessments, satisfactory to the Bank, as
part of the selection process; and provided further, that the
Borrower shall take necessary steps to ensure that DGWRD and the
Irrigation Development Division of the respective PRIS shall give
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
schemes under each Sub-project to the Operation and Maintenance
Division of the respective PRIS or the farmers-beneficiaries, as the
case may be, only after the respective Sub-project has been
commissioned pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph.

2.    The Borrower shall cause DGWRD and PRIS to: (i) collect and
analyze sufficient hydrologic and climatic data to provide a
continuous and reliable basis for assessing irrigation water
availability and allocation for each Sub-project; and (ii) not
undertake any additional development of a Sub-project nor any
expansion of the Sub-project command area, until the Sub-project has
been fully completed and developed in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

3.    The Borrower shall cause MOF and DGWRD to classify the
catchment areas of each Sub-project as Protection Forests. For
purposes of this paragraph the term "Protection Forests" means state
forest land which is retained in its natural state so as to improve
water conservation, prevent flooding and soil erosion, and maintain
soil fertility.

4.    The Borrower shall cause MOA, through DGFCA, to provide
appropriate and timely staffing, facilities, services and the other
resources required to carry out agricultural extension satisfactory
to the Bank throughout the Project Area.

5.    The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the
Bank for its review and comments, for each province in the Project
Area: (i) not later than June 30 of each year, commencing on
June 30, 1992, until the completion of the Project, coordinated work
programs and cost estimates for the following Fiscal Year; and (ii)
not later than September 30 of each year, commencing on September
30, 1991, until the completion of the Project, a coordinated annual
budget proposal for the agreed work programs for the following
Fiscal Year.

6.    The Borrower shall, for the duration of the Project, through
BAPPENAS, undertake the overall coordination of the activities under
the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    The Borrower shall, for the duration of the Project, through
each BAPPEDA, undertake the coordination of the activities under the
Project to be carried out within their respective jurisdiction, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

8.    The Borrower shall cause each of its agencies and departments
carrying out the Project or any part thereof to monitor and evaluate
all Project activities and performance according to standards and
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.