World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3271 ME

     (Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project)

                        between

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                          and

              BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
              SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.

                Dated January 18, 1991

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3271 ME

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1991, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS,
S.N.C. (the Borrower).

     WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the

Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "CETES" means Certificados de la Tesoreria de
la Federacion (Federal Treasury Certificates), as defined
in the Diario Oficial, dated November 28, 1977, published
by the Guarantor;

     (b)  "CETES Rate" means the average annual yield,
calculated monthly, on CETES with maturities of up to one
month, issued during the month in which a CETES Rate is
calculated, or such other index reflecting the cost of
funds to the Guarantor as shall be acceptable to the
Guarantor and the Bank;

     (c)  "Charter" means the Ley Organica of the
Borrower published in the Diario Oficial on January 20,
1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

     (d)  "CNA" means the Guarantor’s National Water
Commission (Comision Nacional del Agua);

     (e)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

     (f)  "IMTA" means the Guarantor’s Mexican Institute
of Water Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del
Agua);

     (g)  "Marginality Index" means the index, developed
by the Guarantor’s Consejo Nacional de Poblacion
(National Population Council) to measure the level of
economic development of individual municipalities. The
Marginality Index is higher for less developed areas and
lower for more developed areas;

     (h)  "National Water Quality and Information
Program" means the water quality monitoring program
presented by CNA to the Bank in a document entitled
Programa Nacional de Informacion y Monitoreo de la
Calidad del Agua, dated June 26, 1990;

     (i)  "Normatividad" means the Normatividad para el
Ejercicio de Creditos Provenientes de Organismos
Financieros Internacionales Destinados a la Banca de
Desarrollo y Fondos de Fomento con Apoyos del Gobierno
Federal por Diferenciales Negativos en Tasas de Interes
(Regulations Governing the Use of Loans from
International Finance Institutions to Development Banks
and Funds with Assistance from the Federal Government for
Negative Differentials in Interest Rates), issued by the

Guarantor’s Finance Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda
y Credito Publico) and Planning and Budgeting Secretariat
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto), by means of
Oficio No. 102-B-049, dated November 18, 1988;

     (j)  "Operating Agency" means a private, state or
municipal water supply and sanitation enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

     (k)  "Peso" or "pesos" means the currency of the
Guarantor;

     (l)  "Revaluation Guidelines" means the guidelines
for revaluing fixed assets of Operating Agencies,
prepared by CNA pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement;

     (m)  "SEDUE" means the Guarantor’s Urban Development
and Ecology Secretariat (Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano
y Ecologia);

     (n)  "SHCP" means the Guarantor’s Finance
Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);

     (o)  "SPP" means the Guarantor’s Planning and
Budgeting Secretariat (Secretaria de Programacion y
Presupuesto);

     (p)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (q)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to
an Operating Agency for a Sub-project;

     (r)  "Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement between
the Borrower and an Operating Agency (to which, in the
case of a state or municipal Operating Agency, the
Guarantor and the government of the state in which the
state or municipal Operating Agency operates shall also
be parties), which agreement contains the terms and
conditions of a Sub-loan;

     (s)  "Sub-project" means a specific water supply or
sanitation development project to be carried out by an
Operating Agency utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
and

     (t)  "SWS" means the State Water Supply and
Sanitation Subcommittee (Subcomite Especial de Agua
Potable y Alcantarillado) in each of the Guarantor’s
states.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out

of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six
               months or the second six months of a
               calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-fied Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,

plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower
     and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
     Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
     period com-mencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in
each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Transfer of Loan Proceeds

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the Guarantor, providing, inter alia, for:

         (i)   transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds
               of the Loan in the same currencies as
               received from the Bank;

        (ii)   onlending by the Guarantor to the
               Borrower of the proceeds of the Loan to
               carry out Parts A and B.3 of the Project
               under terms and conditions which shall
               include: (A) funds onlent shall be
               denomi-nated and repayable in pesos;
               (B) the interest rate charged on funds
               shall be equal to the CETES Rate and
               shall be paid on amounts withdrawn and
               outstanding on a monthly basis; and (C)
               principal amounts withdrawn and
               outstanding shall be repaid semi-annually
               in accordance with the timetable set
               forth in the Amortization Schedule in
               Schedule 3 to this Agreement;

       (iii)   provision by the Guarantor to the
               Borrower, in accordance with the
               Normatividad and by means of specific
               annual budgetary allocations, of all
               amounts required to cover: (A) the
               difference, if any, between the CETES
               Rate and the interest rate charged by the
               Borrower on Sub-loans under Part A of the
               Project; and (B) financial intermediation
               and operating costs of the Borrower; and

        (iv)   payment by the Guarantor to the Borrower
               of all amounts required by the Borrower
               to pay to the Bank on account of
               principal, interest and other charges on
               the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of

this Section.

                      ARTICLE IV

               Execution of the Project;
       Management and Operations of the Borrower

     Section 4.01. The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agree-ment, and, to this end, shall:
(i) carry out Parts A and B.3 of the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the
Charter; and (ii) provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for it to carry out Parts A and
B.3 of the Project.

     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and elsewhere in this Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate, waive, or fail to enforce any provision
of a Sub-loan Agreement.

     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in
relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

     Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, pro-curement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not enter into a Sub-loan
Agreement with an Operating Agency unless:

     (a)  the Operating Agency is directly responsible
for opera-ting a water supply or sanitation system, and
has its own legal personality (these conditions need not
apply to Sub-loan Agreements, for an aggregate amount of
Sub-loans equivalent to no more than $25,000,000
equivalent, entered into before September 1, 1991);

     (b)  in the case of an Operating Agency receiving an
aggre-gate equivalent to $1,000,000 or more in Sub-loans,
the Operating Agency is collecting water supply and
sewerage charges sufficient to produce total operating
revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its total
operating expenses. For purposes of this paragraph, the
term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
sources related to operations, and the term "total
operating expenses" means all expenses related to
operations, including administration, ade-quate
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (an
Opera-ting Agency which does not meet the conditions set
forth in this paragraph shall only be eligible for Sub-
loans, aggregating less than the equivalent of
$1,000,000, for institutional development and emergency
infrastructure works);

     (c)  the Operating Agency presents a feasibility
study for the relevant Sub-project, approved by CNA and
the relevant SWS and satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, (i) an analysis of Sub-project

alternatives which identifies the alterna-tive
representing the least cost and specifies that such
alternative be the one financed through the proposed Sub-
loan; (ii) an environ-mental impact amelioration action
plan for the Sub-project, prepared by CNA, based on a
SEDUE environmental impact assessment, with suggested
proposals for ameliorating any negative environmental
impact specified in the assessment; and (iii) a finding
that the proposed Sub-project should yield a rate of
return, calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
of at least 12% in the case of water supply Sub-projects
or at least 10% in the case of sanitation or water
pollution control Sub-projects.

     Section 4.05. Each Sub-project shall include a
technical assistance and/or training component to
strengthen the institutional capabilities of the
Operating Agency in question.

     Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, by no later than
March 31, 1991, present to the Bank a timetable and
consultants’ terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank, for carrying out Part B.3 of the Project.

     Section 4.07. The Borrower shall participate in the
annual reviews, and carry out the annual plans of action,
referred to in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement.

     Section 4.08. Throughout the course of Project
implementation, and without limitation to the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall present semiannual progress reports to the Bank
regarding the Project, no later than each September 30
for semesters ending on each June 30, and no later than
each March 31 for semesters ending on each December 31.
Such pro-gress reports shall compare Project advances for
each semester with the goals and projections set forth in
the relevant action plan referred to in Section 3.09 of
the Guarantee Agreement. Such pro-gress reports, in the
case of unsatisfactory Project advances, shall recommend
remedial actions to correct the situation.

     Section 4.09. The Borrower shall promptly exercise
its rights set forth in paragraph 4 (f) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

                       ARTICLE V

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower,
including separate records and accounts for the Project.

     Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records referred to in Section
               5.01 of this Agreement, its accounts and
               financial statements (balance sheets,
               statements of income and expenses and
               related statements) and records and
               accounts for the Special Account for each
               fiscal year audited in accordance with
               generally accepted auditing standards and
               procedures, by independent and qualified
               auditors;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, (A)

certified copies of said financial
               statements for such year as so audited
               and (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information con-cerning the said
                    records, accounts and financial
                    statements and the audit thereof as
                    the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (b)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with Section 5.01
               of this Agreement, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the proce-dures and
               internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.

                      ARTICLE VI

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  that the Charter or other documents under which
the Borrower operates shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project
or to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement; and

     (b)  that any action shall have been taken for the
liquidation, dissolution or disestablishment of the
Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely, the events specified in paragraphs (a)
or (b) of Section 6.01 shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VII

              Effective Date; Termination

Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
addi-tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely that the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall have been entered into.

     Section 7.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be fur-nished to the Bank, namely
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized and
are legally binding upon the parties thereto.

     Section 7.03. The date April 18, 1991 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                     ARTICLE VIII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                       82987 (FTCC)

     For the Borrower:

          Banco Nacional de Obras y
            Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
          Insurgentes Norte 423
          06900 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico

          Cable address:           Telex:

               BANTECARIO                 BNOSME 01772619
               Mexico City                Mexico City

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                Regional Vice President
                        Latin America and the Caribbean

               BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
                 SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.

               By /s/ Gustavo Carvajal Moreno
                              Authorized Representative
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                      Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Goods and civil208,000,000       50%
   works for Part A
   of the Project

(2)    Consultants’    23,000,000       100%
   services for
   Part A of the
   Project

(3)    Goods and civil 24,000,000       80%
   works for
   Part B of the
   Project

(4)    Consultants’    15,000,000       100%
   services for
   Part B of the
   Project

(5)    Unallocated     30,000,000
                      ___________

       TOTAL          300,000,000
                      ===========

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made:

     (a)  in respect of goods, works or services financed
by a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and

     (b)  in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $30,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) through (4) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1990.

                      SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve
the quantity and quality of water supply and sanitation
services throughout the territory of the Guarantor
(except for the metropolitan areas of Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Monterrey); (b) to support the insti-
tutional strengthening of CNA, IMTA, Operating Agencies
and the Borrower with regard to their activities in the
water supply and sanitation sector; (c) to ameliorate the
environmental impact of water supply and sanitation
sector activities; and (d) to support sound pricing
policies and the reduction of subsidization for the water
supply and sanitation sector.

     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Bank and the
Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

     Provision of Sub-loans to Operating Agencies to
finance Sub-projects aimed at rehabilitating and
expanding water supply and sanitation systems, including
sewerage treatment plants, and at strengthening the
institutional capabilities of such Operating Agencies.

Part B:

1.   Provision of technical assistance and training for
CNA with regard to: (a) improving and assisting in Sub-
project evaluation and preparation; (b) reviewing and
updating technical norms and parameters for the design,
construction and maintenance of water supply and
sanitation systems; (c) designing and implementing a
monitoring system for the water supply and sanitation
sector; (d) assisting in the strengthening of
institutional and environmental assessment capabilities
of Operating Agencies; (e) carrying out a pilot water
pollution control effort in the Lerma-Chapala Basin; and
(f) preparing for follow-up Bank projects in the water
supply and sanitation sector.

2.   Strengthening of the IMTA National Training Center
through: (a) upgrading its training facilities in
Cuernavaca; (b) acquiring and utilizing training
materials and equipment; and (c) developing and
implementing a management and technical training program
for water supply and sanitation sector managers and
staff.

3.   Strengthening of the capabilities of the Borrower in
the areas of Sub-project preparation and evaluation, of
procurement, and of monitoring and evaluation with regard
to the water supply and sanitation sector.

4.   Construction of facilities (including water sampling
and analysis laboratories) and provision of materials and
equipment for the operation of the National Water Quality
and Information Program.

5.   Undertaking of studies to: (a) provide or update
basic information needed to define medium- and long-term
water pollution control strategies and policies; and (b)
examine alternative mechanisms for encouraging private
sector participation in the provision of water supply and
sanitation services.

               *         *         *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December

31, 1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                Payment of Principal
 Date Payment Due                  (expressed in
dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

     beginning August 15, 1996
     through   February 15, 2008       12,500,000.00