World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3262 MOR

                            as Amended

              (Second Rural Electrification Project)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated November 11, 1992

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3262 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
                            as Amended

      AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1992, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the National
Electricity Authority (ONE) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ONE,
either directly or through the Participating Municipalities (as
hereinafter defined), the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and ONE;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
      several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
      to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
      the following additional terms have these listed meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ONE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.

      (b)   "ONE Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ONE pursuant to paragraph
6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement (as the same may be amended from
time to time) and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement; and "ONE Subsidiary Loan"
means the loan provided under the ONE Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (c)   "FEC" means the Municipal Finance Agency (Fonds
d’Equipement Communal), a financial institution established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law (Dahir) No. 1
5 dated
August 5, 1992, as the same may be amended from time to time.

      (d)   "FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and FEC pursuant to paragraph
3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the FEC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "FEC Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided under the FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the
ONE Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
FEC out of the proceeds of the FEC Subsidiary Loan to a
Participating Municipality for a Development Project.

      (g)   "Participating Municipality" means any rural munici-
pality of the Borrower, referred to in Part B.5 of Annex A to
Schedule 4 of this Agreement, to which FEC proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan.

      (h)   "Development Project" means a specific development
project, referred to in Part A (1) of the Project, to be carried out
by ONE, on behalf of the Participating Municipality to which the
Sub-loan for such Development Project has been made, utilizing the
proceeds of such Sub-loan, pursuant to the Development Project
Arrangements.

(i)   "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean,
respectively, the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of
this Agreement and the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement; "Special Accounts" means, collectively, Special
Account A and Special Account B; and "Special Account" means either
of the Special Accounts.

      (j)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      (k)   "Power Sub-sector Development Action Plan" means the
Borrower’s plan of actions outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02
of this Agreement.

      (l)   "Implementation Arrangements" means the arrangements
among the Borrower’s Ministries of Finance, Interior and Energy and
Mines and ONE referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      (m)   "Basic Legislation" means the Borrower’s (i) Law (Dahir)
No. 1
226 dated August 5, 1963 pursuant to which ONE has been
established and is operating, (ii) Laws (Dahir) No. 1
271 dated
April 14, 1960 and No. 1
402 dated June 30, 1962 pertaining to
the Borrower’s financial control of public enterprises, including
ONE, and (iii) the Law referred to in Section 1.02 (c) of this
Agreement; all as the same may be amended from time to time.

      (n)   "Development Project Arrangements" means with respect to
each Development Project, the arrangements, referred to in Section
2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement, to be concluded between ONE and
the Participating Municipality on behalf of which ONE is to carry
out said Development Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fourteen million dollars ($114,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in a currency, a
financial institution and on terms and conditions, all satisfactory
to the Bank, (i) a special deposit account for the purposes of Part
A (1) of the Project and (ii) a special deposit account for the
purposes of Parts A (2) and B of the Project.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, each of the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the

principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purpose of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement and

except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the implementation program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than seven months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. In accordance with the Borrower’s objective of
improving the operations and financial efficiency of the power sub-
sector, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
necessary to ensure that the Power Sub-sector Development Action
Plan shall be carried out with due diligence and efficiency.

      Section 4.03. In order to facilitate the proper implementation
of each of ONE’s investment programs referred to in Section 3.04 (b)

of the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to enable ONE to implement the plan, referred to in said
Section, for the financing of said investment programs, as they
shall have been approved by the Borrower.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   ONE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or FEC shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ONE will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or that FEC will be able to
perform its obligations under the FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (c)  The Basic Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of ONE to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or of FEC to perform any of its
obligations under the FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment,
or for the suspension of the operations, of either ONE or FEC.

      (e)  Any of the parties to the Implementation Arrangements
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations under
the Implementations Arrangements.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)  Any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the parties thereto; and

     (b)  the Implementation Arrangements have been concluded among
the parties thereto.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ONE, and is legally binding upon ONE in accordance with
its terms; and

     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the respective parties thereto and are

legally binding upon the said parties in accordance with their
respective terms.

     Section 6.03. the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministcre des Finances
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                  MINISTERE FINANCES       31936M

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names, as of the day and year first above
written.

                  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                  By

                                         /s/ Mohamed Belkhayat
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By                     /s/ Pieter P. Bottelier
                                         Authorized Representative
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods:

    (a)  for Part A(1)                          100% of foreign
    of the Project          $35,200,000)        expenditures,
                                       )        100% of local
    (b)  for Parts A(2)                )        expenditures (ex-
         and B of the         8,200,000)        factory cost) and
         Project                       )        78% of local
                                       )        expenditures for
                                       )        other items
                                       )        procured locally

(2) Works:

    (a)  for Part A(1)
    of the Project           54,200,000)
                                       )        56%
    (b)  for Part A(2)                 )
         of the Project       9,500,000)

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’
    services:

    (a)  for Part A(1)        1,500,000)
         of the Project                )
                                       )        100%
    (b)  for Parts A (2)               )
         and B of the         1,200,000)
         Project                       )

(4) Training                     200,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(5) Unallocated                4,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               114,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to June 14, 1991;
and

(b)   a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Part B of Annex A to Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (1) develop and upgrade
the power distribution network in rural areas of the Borrower’s
territory; and (2) implement institutional and policy reforms
designed to improve the financial and economic efficiency of the
Borrower’s power sub-sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Carrying out of a program to provide electrical power to
Participating Municipalities, consisting of:

      (1)   the carrying out of specific development projects to
construct medium- and low-voltage power lines, distribution
transformers and regional operating facilities and to provide
vehicles and specialized equipment required for the proper operation
and maintenance thereof; and

      (2)   the installation of cables and meters to connect
electrical power consumers to the electrical power distribution
network.

Part B:

      (1)   Carrying out of a program to develop and implement: (a)
a suitable national tariff policy for the Borrower’s power sub-
sector; (b) suitable policies and procedures for the proper
monitoring and control of works related to the development of the
power distribution network; and (c) suitable policies and procedures
for the management of ONE’s inventory; including the provision of
computer hardware and software required therefor.

      (2)   Carrying out a training program to strengthen the skills
of ONE’s staff in the design and marketing of power distribution
systems, including the provision of computer hardware and software
required therefor.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                       Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 1996                             2,075,000
July 15, 1996                                2,155,000
January 15, 1997                             2,240,000
July 15, 1997                                2,325,000
January 15, 1998                             2,415,000
July 15, 1998                                2,510,000
January 15, 1999                             2,605,000
July 15, 1999                                2,710,000
January 15, 2000                             2,815,000
July 15, 2000                                2,920,000
January 15, 2001                             3,035,000

July 15, 2001                                3,155,000
January 15, 2002                             3,275,000
July 15, 2002                                3,400,000
January 15, 2003                             3,535,000
July 15, 2003                                3,670,000
January 15, 2004                             3,815,000
July 15, 2004                                3,960,000
January 15, 2005                             4,115,000
July 15, 2005                                4,275,000
January 15, 2006                             4,440,000
July 15, 2006                                4,610,000
January 15, 2007                             4,790,000
July 15, 2007                                4,975,000
January 15, 2008                             5,170,000
July 15, 2008                                5,370,000
January 15, 2009                             5,575,000
July 15, 2009                                5,795,000
January 15, 2010                             6,020,000
July 15, 2010                                6,250,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                       The interest rate (ex-
                                       pressed as a percentage per
                                       annum) applicable to the
                                       Loan on the day of
                                       prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years                        1.00
      before maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement.

General

1.    The Borrower, through its Ministries of Finance, Interior, and
Energy and Mines, shall enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with ONE designed to ensure the proper implementation of the
Project.

2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

Part A (1) of the Project

3.    The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(a) to FEC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FEC under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include those set forth in
Annex A to this Schedule.

4.    (a)   The Borrower shall (i) cause FEC to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations of FEC therein set forth, (ii) take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FEC
to perform such obligations, and (iii) not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FEC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the FEC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

Parts A(2) and B of the Project

5.    The Borrower shall (a) cause ONE to perform all its
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, (b) take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable ONE
to perform such obligations, and (c) not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

6.    The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b) and (4) to
ONE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ONE, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank which shall include those set forth in Annex B
to this Schedule.

7.    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ONE
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ONE Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

8.    The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be
carried out by ONE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

                       ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 4

                    Terms and Conditions of the
                   FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement

The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

Part A

1.    The principal amount of the FEC Subsidiary Loan shall be the
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans
made to Participating Municipalities.

2.    The FEC Subsidiary Loan shall have a maturity of not more than
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than five
(5) years.

3.    The FEC Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest
at a rate equal at least to twelve percent (12%) per annum.

4.    The FEC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be made on further
terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including that FEC shall
undertake to:

      (a)   make Sub-loans to Participating Municipalities on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Part B of this
Annex;

      (b)   exercise its rights in relation to each Development
Project in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Bank and FEC, comply with its obligations under the FEC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project,
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such agreement;

      (c)   (i)    maintain procedures and records adequate to
monitor and record the progress of each Development Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of FEC; (ii) have
its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
of its fiscal years audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Borrower for forwarding to the
Bank, as soon as available, but in any case, not later than seven
(7) months after the end of each of its fiscal years: (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records,
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;

      (d)   at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank
with regard to the progress of the Development Projects, the
performance of its obligations under the FEC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan;
and

      (e)   promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Part
A(1) of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by FEC of its obligations under the FEC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

Part B

      The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Part B shall apply for the purposes of Part A.4 (a) of this
Annex.

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan made to a Participating
Municipality shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower

(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of Special Account A) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out to or on the
order of ONE on account of the cost of goods, works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(a) for the Development
Project carried out under Part A(1) of the Project by ONE on behalf
of the said Participating Municipality for which the Sub-loan is
made.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate equal at least to 13.5% per annum.

3.Each Sub-loan shall be made for a period not exceeding twenty
(20) years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding five (5)
years.

4.    Each Sub-loan shall be made on further terms whereby FEC shall
obtain, by written contract with the Participating Municipality or
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Bank and FEC, including:

      (a)   that FEC shall have the right to suspend or terminate
the right of the Participating Municipality to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Participating
Municipality to perform its obligations under its contract providing
for the Sub-loan; and

      (b)   that each Participating Municipality shall undertake to:

            (i)    maintain at all times the Development Project
                   Arrangements to which it is a party and, without
                   limitation on said arrangements, provide all
                   assistance to ONE as shall be necessary to
                   enable ONE properly (A) to carry out and operate
                   the Development project with due diligence and
                   efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
                   standards and practices, and (B) to procure the
                   goods, works and services required for the
                   Development Project and to be financed out of
                   the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
                   provisions of the Project Agreement;

            (ii)   maintain adequate records in respect of the
                   Development Project and provide, promptly, as
                   needed the funds, facilities, and other
                   resources required for the purpose;

            (iii)  provide all assistance required on its part to
                   enable the Borrower, the Bank and FEC to inspect
                   the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
                   Sub-loan, and the sites, works, plants and
                   construction included in the Development
                   Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
                   records and documents; and

            (iv)   prepare and furnish to FEC, for forwarding to
                   the  Borrower and the Bank, if so requested by
                   the Borrower or the Bank, all such other
                   information as the Borrower, the Bank or FEC
                   shall reasonably request relating to the
                   foregoing and to the administration, operations
                   and financial condition of the Participating
                   Municipality and to the benefits to be derived
                   from the Development Project.

5.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only: (a) to a municipality
located in a rural area which shall have (i) been selected by the
Borrower and approved by the Bank, and (ii) demonstrated its
creditworthiness to the satisfaction of FEC on the basis of
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; (b) for a Development Project

which (i) shall have been selected by the Borrower and approved by
the Bank, and (ii) is technically and financially feasible, as
determined to the satisfaction of FEC on the basis on guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) on condition that the
Participating Municipality and ONE shall have concluded Development
Project Arrangements in respect of said Development Project.

                       ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 4

                    Terms and Conditions of the
                   ONE Subsidiary Loan Agreement

      The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of the ONE Subsidiary Loan shall be the
equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the
date or respective dates of repayment by ONE) of the equivalent in
dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal
from the Loan Account or payment out of Special Account B) of the
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on
account of the cost of goods, works and services for Parts A (2) and
B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b) and
(4).

2.    The ONE Subsidiary Loan shall have a maturity of not more than
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than five
(5) years.

3.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a
rate equal at least to the rate applicable from time to time to the
Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.

                              SCHEDULE 5

             Power Sub-sector Development Action Plan

      For purposes of Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the Power Sub-
sector Development Action Plan shall consist of the following:

A.    Tariff Study

      The Borrower shall:

1.    Carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
a study to develop structures and levels of electricity tariffs for
its power sub-sector which take into account the long run marginal
cost of electric power, as well as the Borrower’s objective of
ensuring the financial soundness of ONE and other public electricity
distribution facilities;

2.    define and decide, not later than June 30, 1993, upon the
basic elements of its national tariff structure for its power sub-
sector, and furnish to the Bank promptly upon its completion a copy
of said study, together with the recommendations based thereon; and

3.    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on the results and conclusions of said study, and
thereafter take all measures necessary at the time of each tariff
adjustment to ensure the gradual implementation of such recom-
mendations so as to put into effect, not later than December 31,
1993, its national tariff policy for its power sub-sector based on
the recommendations of said study, as they shall have been agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank.

B.    Sector Arrears

1.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that:

      (a)   each of its public agencies shall pay the balance of its

electricity bills due and payable as at June 30, 1992, in three (3)
equal installments, with the first installment due not later than
December 31, 1992, the second installment due not later than 31,
1993, and the third installment due not later than December 31,
1994;

      (b)   each of its public agencies shall pay its electricity
bills, other than those referred to in sub-paragraph 1 (a) of this
Part B, promptly upon the issuance thereof in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (c)   beginning with its fiscal year ending December 31, 1992,
budgetary allocations shall be made for each fiscal year in the
relevant budget or budgets of its public agencies in amounts
sufficient to ensure the fulfillment of the obligations set forth in
sub-paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (b) of this Part B.

2.    For purposes of this Section:

      (a)   the term "public agencies" means the Borrower’s
ministries, departments and political or administrative
subdivisions; and

      (b)   the term "electricity bills" means, in respect of each
of the public agencies, the amounts periodically billed by ONE and
other electricity distribution utilities to such public agencies for
the supply of electricity and the provision of related works and
services by ONE and such other electricity distribution utilities tosuch public 
agencies.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                         Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of
Special Account A, Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(a) and, in
respect of Special Account B, Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b) and
(4);

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the respective eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $5,000,000, and, in
respect of Special Account B, an amount equivalent to $900,000, to
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the respective
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the said Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the said Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the said Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests

for deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the said Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of each of the
Special Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into:

      (a)   either of the Special Accounts, if, at any time, the
Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals under the
respective eligible Categories should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   Special Account A, once the total unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), and (3) (a),
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to expenditures to be financed thereunder shall equal the
equivalent of $10,000,000; or

      (c)   Special Account B, once the total unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b) and
(4), less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to expenditures to be financed thereunder shall equal
the equivalent of $1,800,000.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the respective eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of Special Account A or Special Account B:  (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no

further deposit by the Bank into the respective Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in either of the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in either of the
Special Accounts.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.