World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3303 JM

        (Second Trade and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                              JAMAICA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated March 22, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3303 JM

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 22, 1991, between JAMAICA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 15,
1991, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s trade and financial sectors (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
and

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date
                   or such later date as may be agreed for this
                   purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
                   Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
                   report, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
                   of the program referred to in the Preamble to
                   the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
                   Borrower and the Bank of their respective obli-
                   gations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
                   plishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Clas-
sification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);

      (b)   "First Tranche" means a portion of the Loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000 to be released by the Bank
on or after the Effective Date; and

      (c)   "Second Tranche" means a portion of the Loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000 to be released by the Bank
upon compliance by the Borrower of the actions set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) Bank of Jamaica is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

(b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Jamaica with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$250,000 equivalent.

                          ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b)  The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   subject to paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this
                   Agreement, furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than ninety days
                   after the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                   has been made under each of the First and Second
                   Tranches, a certified copy of the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine

such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal con-
                   trols involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date of June 20, 1991 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning
            30 National Heroes Circle
            Kingston
            Jamaica

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   Ministry of Finance       2447 MINFAN
                   Kingston

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

JAMAICA

                   By /s/ Keith Johson
                                         Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and
                                  associated materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                  semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                  worked

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                  parts thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals
                                  (except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971                --          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)

(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $6,000,000 may be made from the First
Tranche on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after November 22, 1990;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (f)   expenditures for petroleum products and foodstuffs or
for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for
luxury consumption.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $15,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program;

      (b)   that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and

      (c)   that the actions related to the release of the Second
Tranche described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is not consistent
with the objectives of the Program or that the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program or actions taken pursuant to Schedule 4 to
this Agreement are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken
actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

      beginning November 15, 1996
      through   May 15, 2008               1,250,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, contracts for the
procurement of goods shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifica-
tions:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

            (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or

            (iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                   quired."

(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,500,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.

3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Actions Referred to in paragraph 4 (c)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    The Borrower shall have: (i) eliminated Jamaica Commodity
Trading Corporation’s import monopolies for all products; (ii)
established a system, satisfactory to the Bank, to select on a
competitive basis agents for procurement of commodities financed
under bilateral trade agreements entered into between the Borrower
and foreign governments except when such agreements provide that
Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation shall be the procurement agent
for such commodities; (iii) established a system of import duties
and other taxes satisfactory to the Bank, for imported motor
vehicles; and (iv) eliminated price controls on pharmaceutical
products and introduced competitive bidding procedures for the
acquisition of pharmaceutical products for public health centers and
hospitals.

2.    The Borrower shall have offered for sale the Jamaica Commodity
Trading Corporation’s equity participation in Jamaica Grains Limited

and Jamaica Soya Products Industries to private investors.

3.    Progress shall have been made in the carrying out of the plan
of action, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to a
letter of even date, to strengthen the capacity of the Borrower’s
Customs and Excise Department.

4.    A bill of law on merchant banks and trust companies, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, shall have been submitted to the Borrower’s
Parliament to: (i) regulate, inter alia, capital requirements for
the establishment and operation of merchant banks and trust
companies, limits on credit exposure to a single borrower or to a
group of affiliated borrowers, limits on unsecured loans, clas-
sification of loans and provisioning for loan losses; and (ii)
provide supervisory powers to the Bank of Jamaica in respect of
merchant banks and trust companies.

5.    A bill of law, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been
submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament, amending the Bank of Jamaica
Act of October 1, 1960 as amended to the date of this Agreement to
strengthen the Bank of Jamaica’s operations and provide a more
effective mechanism for implementing monetary policy.

6.    A bill of law on securities, satisfactory to the Bank, shall
have been submitted to the Borrower’s  Parliament to regulate, inter
alia, company registration, shareholders rights and stock trading
rules.

7.    Progress shall have been achieved in the implementation of the
program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to a
letter of even date regarding the periodic adjustments of the
percentage of cash-reserves required to be maintained in Bank of
Jamaica by commercial banks, merchant banks and trust companies.

8.    (a)   The Borrower’s National Development Bank and the
Borrower’s Agricultural Credit Bank shall have, respectively, set
interest rates on loans to commercial banks and other financial
institutions for onlending to: (i) industrial enterprises and Large
Farmers, at an interest rate equal to the yield on the Borrower’s
ninety-day treasury bills as determined at the most recent auction
in Kingston prior to the making of such loans to commercial banks
and other financial institutions; and (ii) Small Farmers, at an
interest rate equal to four percentage points less than the yield on
the Borrower’s ninety-day treasury bills as determined at the most
recent auction in Kingston prior to the making of such loans to
commercial banks and other financial institutions.

      (b)   For purposes of this paragraph: (i) "Large Farmers"
means farmers with farms of an area exceeding 25 acres; and (ii)
"Small Farmers" means farmers with farms of an area of 25 acres or
less.

9.    An accounting system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have
been adopted, for the transfer of funds by the Borrower to the
Borrower’s development banks, which makes measurable and transparent
the interest subsidies for agriculture, industry and housing loans
provided by such banks.

10.   (a)   The general consumption tax that has been submitted to
the Borrower’s Parliament shall have been enacted and put into
effect or, in the absence thereof, other taxes with a similar
structure which would have equivalent economic effects and produce
revenues equivalent to those which would have been produced by the
said general consumption tax shall have been put into effect; and
(b) stamp duties levied on all imports shall have been eliminated
except for those on motor vehicles, alcohol and tobacco, those being
phased out under the Program supported by the Bank under the Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank (Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan) dated March 23, 1990 and those on corn, soy beans,
condensed milk and aluminum products being phased out under this
Loan.

11.   A certified copy of the audit report referred to in Section
3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement in respect to the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the First Tranche, has been
furnished to the Bank.