World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3333 MAS

          (Agricultural Management and Services Project)

                              between

                             MAURITIUS

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 5, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3333 MAS
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1991, between MAURITIUS (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   sub-paragraph (k) of Section 6.02 is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "IA" means the Borrower’s Irrigation Authority; and

      (b)   "MAFNR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Natural Resources.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall undertake, three years after
the Effective Date, an evaluation of the implementation of the
Project on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower shall, within three months of the completion of the
evaluation, submit an evaluation report to the Bank for its review

and comments. The evaluation report shall include the Borrower’s
plans to rectify identified constraints.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, excluding IA, responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause IA to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of IA.

      (c)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and the records,
                  accounts and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) of IA, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than eight months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audits
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested including certified copies of IA’s
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit reports for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audits contains a separate opinion by
                  said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause IA:

      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;

      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, irrigation and
water use practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and

      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
irrigation practices.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Act No. 39 of 1978 of the laws of the Borrower
establishing IA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of IA to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement, or
      (b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of IA or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the events specified in Section 6.01 (a) and (b) of this
Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has established the Consultative Committee
on Agriculture referred to in Part A.1 of the Project and an exe-
cutive secretary of the secretariat with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank has been appointed;

      (b)   the Borrower has established the Agricultural Policy
Analysis Unit referred to in Part A.2 of the Project within MAFNR
and the Head and the Information Analyst with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank have been
appointed;

      (c)   the Borrower’s Directorate of Agricultural Research and
Extension has been reorganized in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
and the Director and Assistant Directors thereof, with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
have been appointed; and

      (d)   the IA has been reorganized in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.

      Section 7.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after

the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                          ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis
            Mauritius

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    4249 EXTERN IW
                  Port Louis

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  MAURITIUS

                  By /s/ Anerood Jugnauth
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ M. A. Qureshi
                                             Senior Vice President
                                                        Operations

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be

financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works                      2,750,000        65%

(2) Goods                      2,100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures

(3) Consultants’               3,200,000        80% of local
    services                                    expenditures
                                                for services of
                                                consultants
                                                domiciled within
                                                the territory
                                                of the Borrower
                                                and 100% of
                                                foreign expen-
                                                ditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants

(4) Training                     350,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Travel Allowances            250,000        70% of local
                                                expenditures until
                                                disbursements
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of
                                                $140,000; 60% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures until such
                                                disbursements have
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of
                                                $200,000; and 50%
                                                thereafter

(6) Research                     400,000        70% until dis-
    and extension                               bursements under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached $220,000
                                                equivalent; 60%
                                                until disburse-
                                                ments have reached
                                                $320,000 equiva-
                                                lent; and 50%
                                                thereafter

(7) Unallocated                  950,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                10,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to improve the Borrower’s
capabilities for sectoral management, policy formulation and for the
delivery of support services in its agricultural sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Management

      Strengthening of agricultural sector management capacity
through:

1.    the establishment of a Consultative Committee on Agriculture
supported by a permanent secretariat;

2.    establishment of an Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit within
MAFNR; and

3.    acquisition and installation of computerized agricultural and
management information systems.

Part B:     Agricultural Support Services

      Strengthening of agricultural support services through:

1.    the restructuring of the research and extension services
within MAFNR, including acquisition of, inter alia, equipment,
computers and library facilities and construction of an office
building; and

2.    acquisition of computing facilities for the coordination of
the Borrower’s agricultural research activities.

Part C:     Irrigation Services

      Strengthening the institutional framework and operations of IA
through:

1.    restructuring of its organization, including training programs
for its staff and for beneficiary farmers;
2.    rehabilitation of the Western Plains Project main canal; and

3.    carrying out three operations, including a pilot operation, to
test the technical and economic feasibility of a low cost approach
to irrigation.

Part D:     Miscellaneous Support Services and Studies

1.    Development of a marketing strategy and investment program for
small producers on the basis of recommendations of the small
producer efficiency study.

2.    Development of the export capacity of the Agricultural

Marketing Board and improvement of its marketing operations.

3.    Development of an integrated framework for providing services,
including training, financial, marketing and technical support and
services to small-scale producers in the agri-business sector.

4.    Development of the management capacity of farmer groups, the
land area management units and the water user groups in irrigation
areas.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

     beginning February 15, 1997
     through February 15, 2008                  415,000

On August 15, 2008                              455,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                         0.65
     not more than eleven years

before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years before                  1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mauritius may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Small items of goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 each
up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    MAFNR shall, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, be
responsible for the overall coordination, monitoring and supervision
of activities to be carried out under the Project. MAFNR shall be
assisted in this connection by the Administrative Secretariat and
the Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit referred to under Part A.2 of
the Project.

Part A:

2.    The Consultative Committee on Agriculture referred to in Part
A.1 of the Project shall be chaired by the Borrower’s Minister of
Agriculture and shall include in its membership, the Permanent
Secretary of MAFNR, representatives of other Ministries of the
Borrower, representatives of farmers from the sugar and non-sugar
sectors and the executive secretary of the secretariat who shall be
its Secretary. The Committee shall meet at least once a year to
consider and assess the performance of agriculture-related services,
review sectoral performance and developments and make
recommendations on policies, priorities and allocation of resources.

3.    The Agriculture Policy Analysis Unit referred to in Part A.2
of the Project shall primarily support the management and
coordination arrangements in the agricultural sector through
analytical planning, evaluation and information services. The Unit
shall take all necessary action to work closely with the Borrower’s
organizations under MAFNR, its Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development and other relevant institutions.

4.    The Unit shall carry out the day-to-day monitoring and
coordination of the Project and shall be responsible for preparing
half yearly reports on progress made in the carrying out of the
Project based on submissions from the Project implementation
agencies.

Part B:

5.    The Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension and the
farmers’ service centers shall coordinate their respective
activities. In this connection, they shall, inter alia, meet at
least quarterly to exchange information on their respective work and
training programs. In addition, staff from each of these entities
may attend workshops arranged by each entity.

6.    The Directorate and the Agricultural Services (AS) shall also
coordinate their activities. For this purpose a Management Committee
shall be established comprising the Chief Agricultural Officer and
the Principal Agricultural Officer of AS and the Director, the
Assistant Directors and the Extension and Training Coordinator of
the Directorate. The Committee shall meet as frequently as necessary
to carry out its terms of reference and shall establish such
technical committees as are required to deal, inter alia, with
quality control in input supply services, regulatory and production
activities, flow of research findings and feedback from extension
services.

7.    MAFNR shall cause a meeting to be held of Agricultural
Scientists each year under the chairmanship of the Minister of
Agriculture or his designate. Such meetings shall be coordinated by
the Borrower’s Food and Agricultural Research Council and a copy of

the proceedings of each such annual meeting shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and comments.

Part C:

8.    The Borrower shall establish by not later than December 31,
1991, a Water Resources Committee which shall be comprised of senior
officials of MAFNR, its Ministries of Energy, Finance, Environment
and Land Use, Economic Planning and Development, and the Central
Water Authority and IA. The Committee shall, inter alia:

      (a)   establish an Action Program for finalizing the Master
Plan for the Use of Water Resources to cover a 40-50 year period;

      (b)   formulate the long-term strategy for potable water
supply and irrigation for Mauritius;

      (c)   formulate equitable allocation of water resources
between different users;

      (d)   make recommendations on water charges; and

      (e)   follow-up implementation of the Master Plan for the Use
of Water Resources and water resources allocation.

9.    The physical implementation of Part C of the Project shall be
carried out by IA.

10.   (a)   The Borrower shall cause IA to prepare and furnish to
the Bank for approval by:

            (i)   December 31, 1991, specification and bid
                  documents for works, vehicles and equipment
                  related to Part C of the Project; and

           (ii)   December 31, 1991, detailed design specifications
                  and bid documents for rehabilitation works
                  related to Part C of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall cause IA to prepare and furnish to
the Bank by November 1, 1994, for its review and comments after the
implementation of the pilot program of Water Users Associations,
IA’s assessment of the program and its proposals for its further
expansion.

      (c)   The Borrower shall cause IA to prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comment by June 30, 1994, a study to
assess the system of charges for water use for irrigation, including
recommendations, if any on the improvement of the system.

11.   The Borrower shall cause IA to prepare and furnish to the Bank
for its review and comments, by not later than May 31, 1992, a
detailed training program.

12.   The Bank and the Borrower shall, by November 1, 1994 review
the implementation of the pilot operation referred to in Part C.3 of
the Project in terms of the potential for further expansion.

Other Implementation-Related Actions

13.   The Borrower shall begin the carrying out of the study
referred to in Part D.1 of the Project by not later than March 31,
1992 with a view to the development of an action program
satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1992.

14.   The recommendations of the monitoring program included in Part
D.2 of the Project shall be implemented by the Borrower by March 31,
1992.

15.   The Borrower shall take all necessary action to commence the
implementation of the study referred to in Part D.3 of the Project
by December 31, 1991 and the Borrower and the Bank shall exchange

views on the recommendations made under such study upon the
completion thereof.

16.   (a)   Not later than March 31 each year, the Borrower shall
cause the Agriculture Policy and Analysis Unit, on the basis of
submissions from the Project implementing agencies, to prepare and
submit to the Bank for its review and comments annual work programs
in respect of the Project covering the period of 12 months
commencing on the following July 1.

      (b)   Each such program shall contain information satisfactory
to the Bank and, after review and comments thereto, the Borrower
shall implement the program with respect to the Project for the year
in question, having due regard to any comments emanating from the
Bank.