World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3326 UNI

                   (Health System Fund Project)

                              between

                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 6, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3326 UNI

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1991, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower through the States of Nigeria participating in the Project
(the Project States) with the Borrower’s assistance;

      (C)   the Borrower will, as part of such assistance, make
available to the Project States proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Categories (1), (2) and (3)(a) and (b)(ii) in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (D)   the Borrower has requested the Government of Japan

(Japan) to make available to the Borrower a grant (the Japanese
Grant) in an amount of one hundred seventy million yen
(�170,000,000) to assist in financing technical assistance under the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Japanese Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank as Administrator of the Japanese Grant; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Project States pursuant to
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

      (c)   "PFI Cofinancing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between a Project State and a PFI pursuant to Section
3.01 (e)(iii) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "PFI Deed of Guarantee" means the Deed of Guarantee to
be executed by a PFI pursuant to Section 3.01 (e)(iv)  of this
Agreement;

      (e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower, under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, to a Project State for purposes of the Project;

      (f)   "free-limit Sub-loan" has the meaning assigned to it by
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;

      (g)   "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Policy
mentioned in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Project Guidelines" means the Project Guidelines
mentioned in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

      (i)   "Credit Guidelines" means the Credit Guidelines
mentioned in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

      (j)   "PFI" means any of the eligible financial intermediaries
selected to participate in the Project in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (k)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Nigeria
established and operating under the Central Bank of Nigeria Act
(Cap. 30) of the Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Lagos,
1958;

      (l)   "Control Account" means the account mentioned in Section
4.02 of this Agreement;

(m)   "FMOH" means the Federal Ministry of Health;

      (n)   "Project Coordination Committee" means the Project
Coordination Committee mentioned in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement; and

      (o)   "Revolving Fund" means the Revolving Fund mentioned in
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy million dollars ($70,000,000) as the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by a Project State under Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a sub-project in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;
and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain (or cause to be opened and maintained) in dollars
special deposit accounts in commercial or merchant banks for FMOH
(the FMOH Special Account) and the Project States (the Project
States Special Accounts) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the FMOH Special
Account and the Project States Special Accounts (hereinafter
together referred to as the Special Accounts) shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,

beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 3 shall be amended
from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:

      (a)   conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to the Sub-loans, and

      (b)   take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article
VI of the General Conditions and repayments made by the Borrower
under Section 2.08 of this Agreement; provided that any such
amendments to the amortization schedule permitted hereunder shall
not authorize repayments of the principal amount of the Loan beyond
the latest repayment date set forth in such Schedule 3. Such
amendments of said Schedule 3 shall include amendments to the table
of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.

      Section 2.08. The Borrower entrusts the Project States with
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications
relating to Categories (1), (2) and (3) (a) and (b) (ii) in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for the collection of the documents
and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such
applications. Withdrawal applications relating to the said Catego-
ries shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply
for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $50,000
equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall through the Project States with
respect to Part A of the Project and FMOH with respect to Parts B
and C of the Project, carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall provide in its budget amounts
adequate to meet the Borrower’s counterpart contributions to the
costs of the Project, said contributions being presently estimated
by the Borrower and the Bank to amount over the Project period to
$700,000 equivalent.

      (c)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in
a form and with functions and membership satisfactory to the Bank a
Project Coordination Committee (the Project Coordination Committee)
to be responsible for: (i) ensuring the coordination of the
activities of agencies of the Borrower participating directly in the
carrying out of the Project; and (ii) mediating project-related
issues between the Project States and the PFIs.

      (d)   The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1991,
establish and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank in a form and
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, a revolving fund (the
Revolving Fund), to be used for financing, on loan terms, health
sub-projects to be carried out by States eligible for such financ-
ing.

      (e)   The Borrower shall relend to the Project States  the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3)(a) and
(b)(ii) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under agreements (the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into by the Borrower and
the Project States under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank including provisions in each Subsidiary Loan
Agreement requiring:

            (i)   each Project State to pay annual interest at the
                  variable rate provided for in Section 2.05 of
                  this Agreement;

            (ii)  repayment of principal by each Project State in
                  not less than 7 years nor more than 15 years
                  (including a grace period of 2 to 3 years);

          (iii)   a Project State, as a condition precedent to the
                  withdrawal by the Project State of the proceeds
                  of a Sub-loan, to enter into an agreement with a
                  PFI (the PFI Cofinancing Agreement) under which
                  the PFI agrees: (1) to cofinance not less than
                  10% of the total costs of each sub-project to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan,
                  except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
                  wise agree; (2) provide training, and assign
                  adequate and competent staff, for the identifica-
                  tion, appraisal and supervision of State health
                  sub-projects; and (3) furnish to the Borrower and
                  the Bank such reports relating to the Project as
                  the Borrower or the Bank may reasonably request;

            (iv)  the Borrower to require the PFI to execute a Deed
                  of Guarantee (the PFI Deed of Guarantee) under
                  which the PFI assumes at least 10% of the credit
                  risk of a Sub-loan made to the Project State by
                  guaranteeing, as primary obligor and not as
                  surety merely, the due and punctual repayment to
                  the Borrower of at least 10% of the principal of,
                  and interest and other charges on, the Sub-loan;
                  and

(v)   assumption by the Project States of any foreign
                  exchange risks on the Sub-loans.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not earlier than 18 months
nor later than 24 months after the date on which the Loan Agreement
becomes effective, carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review
of the Project and shall, inter alia, in the course of the said
review re-examine jointly with the Bank the health financing
requirements of the local government authorities with a view to
rectifying any deficiency in such financing in a manner satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Project to be
operated in accordance with a Statement of Policy, Project Guide-
lines and Credit Guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) shall
not make any changes, or permit any changes to be made, in the said
Statement or Guidelines, except in consultation with the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audit-
                  ed, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank:
(i) to establish and maintain an account (the Control Account)
showing the status of Sub-loans made to the Project States,
including details of withdrawals and disbursements made under
Categories (1), (2) and (3)(a) and (b)(ii) in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; (ii) to review annually the overall financial status of
Sub-loans; and (iii) to prepare and furnish to the Federal Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development, FMOH and the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year a report satisfactory
to the Bank on the Control Account.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

            (i)   the Project States shall have failed to perform
                  any of their obligations under the Subsidiary
                  Loan Agreements;

           (ii)   as a result of events which have occurred after
                  the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
                  situation shall have arisen which shall make it
                  improbable that the Project States will be able
                  to perform their obligations under the Subsidiary
                  Loan Agreements; and

          (iii)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the
                  right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
                  any loan, credit or grant made to the Borrower
                  for the financing of the Project (including the
                  Japanese Grant) shall have been suspended, cance-
                  lled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                  to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.

      (b)   Paragraph (a)(iii) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

            (A)   such suspension, cancellation or termination is
                  not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such agree-
                  ment; and

            (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to
                  the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a)(i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (a)(iii) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) of that Section.

ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   at least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
executed; and

      (b)   the Project Coordination Committee has been established
in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as  an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
mentioned in Section 6.01 (a) above have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the Project States concerned, and are
legally binding upon the Borrower and the said Project States in
accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The  Minister of Finance and Economic Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
               and Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
            Lagos, Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FEDMINFIN                 21248 (ITT)
                  Lagos

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                            64145 (WUI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  By /s/ Zubair Mamoud Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Katherine Marshall
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

(1)  Civil Works to           26,100,000        100% of foreign
     be financed under                          expenditures
     Sub-loans                                  and 80% of local
                                                expenditures

(2)  Goods to be              30,500,000        100% of foreign
     financed under                             expenditures
     Sub-loans                                  and 80% of
                                                local expendi-
                                               tures

(3)  Consultants’
     services,
     training and
     services financed
     under:

     (a)  Part A of            3,400,000        100%
          of the
          Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

     (b)  Other Parts
          of the
          Project:

         (i)  FMOH               500,000        100%

   (ii)  Project               2,000,000
               States

(4)  Unallocated:

     (a)  Project              7,300,000

States

     (b)  FMOH                   200,000

                              __________

         TOTAL                70,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1990; and
      (b)   a Sub-loan unless: (i) the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; (ii) the Project State to
which the Sub-loan has been made has entered into (A) a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and (B) a PFI Cofinancing Agreement; and (iii) a PFI
Deed of Guarantee has been executed in respect of such Sub-loan.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve health
services through a health system fund to be established under the
Project; (ii) finance health system improvements; (iii) improve the
quality, coverage and efficiency of the health and family planning
services of Project States and local government authorities; (iv)
promote the development of population programs; and (v) strengthen
the capacity of the Project States and local government authorities
to plan, carry out, monitor and evaluate their health, nutrition and
family planning programs.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.

Part A:     State Health Sub-Projects

(1)   Assisting Project States to carry out health and family
planning sub-projects, including the extension of a line of credit
to the Project States for the following:

      (a)   Institutional Development Sub-Projects designed to
            strengthen the capacity of State and local government
            authorities to plan, carry out and monitor community-
            based health, family planning and nutrition programs and
            to improve resource mobilization and financial manage-
            ment, including:

            (i)   in-service training in supervisory methods,
                  acquisition of equipment, vehicles, training
                  materials and other logistical support items and
                  installation of a management information system;

           (ii)   improving coordination between State ministries

of health (SMOHs) and local government authori-
                  ties;

          (iii)   assisting each SMOH to strengthen its financial
                  planning and management capability  through the
                  development of an annual financing plan for the
                  health services (including cost recovery from
                  drugs and medical services) and an annual work
                  plan; and

           (iv)   provision to the SMOHs of technical assistance,
                  staff training, office equipment and funds for
                  operational research;

      (b)   Health Services Improvement Sub-Projects, including:

            (i)   upgrading, renovation and construction of primary
                  health care (PHC) facilities;

           (ii)   support for provision of basic health services
                  including pre-and post-natal maternal health care
                  (MHC), family planning (FP) services, immuniza-
                  tions,and health and nutrition education;

          (iii)   improvement of drug supply and distribution
                  including support for essential drug programs
                  developed by Project States with FMOH’s assis-
                  tance, renovation of pharmaceutical stores of
                  hospitals, States and the local government au-
                  thorities, and acquisition of essential drugs and
                  vaccines;

           (iv)   establishment of disease surveillance and diag-
                  nostic services including the renovation or
                  construction of facilities for public health
                  laboratories and the provision of technical
                  assistance, staff training, equipment and sup-
                  plies;

            (v)   improvement of MCH and FP services including
                  strengthening of the MCH/FP Units in the Public
                  Health Divisions of the SMOHs, acquisition by the
                  said Units of vehicles, equipment and provision
                  of staff training; and the development of FP
                  services in the private sector;

           (vi)   information, education and communication (IEC)
                  activities including the development of an in-
                  tegrated IEC plan to increase: (A) the practice
                  of preventive health care, family planning and
                  better nutrition in the home, (B) demand for MHC
                  services; and (C) awareness of and demand for
                  family planning;

          (vii)   nutrition activities including: (A) promotion of
                  nutrition education to improve infant feeding
                  practices, (B) testing of pilot feeding programs
                  for vulnerable groups; (C) development of regular
                  nutrition surveillance systems  for monitoring
                  and evaluating nutrition activities; and (D) the
                  development of improved weaning foods and their
                  distribution; and

         (viii)   support for non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
                  including: (A) promotion of the involvement of
                  NGOs in the health care system, and (B) estab-
                  lishment of a nodal point in government for
                  financial, marketing and procedural assistance to
                  NGOs.

      (c)   Future Sub-Projects Preparation Activities, including:
(i) facility mapping and planning for renovation and upgrading, (ii)

facility utilization studies, (iii) staffing norms studies, (iv)
studies on SMOH organization and the State health delivery system,
(v) epidemiological studies, and (vi) other feasibility studies.

Part B:     Assistance to the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH)

(1)   Strengthening of FMOH’s Department of Planning, Research and
Statistics (DPRS) including: (A) the assignment to DPRS of a Project
Officer exclusively for the Health System Fund (HSF) activities, (B)
acquisition by DPRS of office equipment, materials and vehicles, (C)
appointment to DPRS of a Project Advisor (local), and (D) the
appointment of an internationally recruited adviser to promote local
consultancy and work with local firms employed to assist the Project
States.

(2)   Establishment of a Health Management Information System (MIS)
including the provision of the services of an internationally
recruited MIS advisor assisted by adequate staff, hardware,
equipment and materials for FMOH and the Project States.

(3)   Technical assistance, training and studies including: (A) a
project performance audit, (B) studies to examine the Health System
Fund Policy Statement of the Borrower, project and credit guidelines
and project preparation procedures, (C) studies into ways of streng-
thening local consultancy skills, and (D) a local and/or overseas
training program which emphasizes project development skills,
management and project implementation.

Part C:     Federal Support to the States

      Provision by the Borrower to the Project States of technical
assistance and other support for: (i) the training of health
planners and other key officials employed by the Project States to
strengthen their health agencies; and (ii) the preparation by the
Project States of their three-year rolling plans, annual implementa-
tion plans, and first phase sub-projects.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

October 15, 1996                          1,280,000
April 15, 1997                            1,325,000
October 15, 1997                          1,380,000
April 15, 1998                            1,430,000
October 15, 1998                          1,485,000
April 15, 1999                            1,545,000
October 15, 1999                          1,605,000
April 15, 2000                            1,665,000
October 15, 2000                          1,730,000
April 15, 2001                            1,795,000
October 15, 2001                          1,865,000
April 15, 2002                            1,940,000
October 15, 2002                          2,015,000
April 15, 2003                            2,090,000
October 15, 2003                          2,170,000
April 15, 2004                            2,255,000
October 15, 2004                          2,340,000
April 15, 2005                            2,430,000
October 15, 2005                          2,525,000
April 15, 2006                            2,625,000
October 15, 2006                          2,725,000
April 15, 2007                            2,830,000
October 15, 2007                          2,940,000
April 15, 2008                            3,055,000

October 15, 2008                          3,170,000
April 15, 2009                            3,295,000
October 15, 2009                          3,420,000
April 15, 2010                            3,550,000
October 15, 2010                          3,690,000
April 15, 2011                            3,830,000

___________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    All works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 but more than
$200,000 equivalent per contract (up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $9,800,000 equivalent) may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Goods estimated to cost per contract $200,000 equivalent or
less (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent)
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Small and scattered items of works estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per individual work (up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent) may be carried out by force
account.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract  estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3 of said Appendix shall
be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                         Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)

through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule equivalent to:(i) $200,000 for 
FMOH; and (ii) $300,000 for a Project State.

2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Categories, and in the re-
                  spective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding

special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                Modifications of General Conditions

      For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following provisions are sub-
stituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 2 (c) of
      Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of
      any amount or portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests under paragraph 2 (a) or (b) of the
      said Schedule; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
      requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower terminate
      the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
      requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
      case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
      Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
      of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                            SCHEDULE 7

                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

1.    No expenditures for goods or services to be met from proceeds
of a Sub-loan shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph 2 (a) of this
Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request
and information required under paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan (not including
a Sub-loan made for the first sub-project to be carried out by a
Project State) in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $500,000 equivalent, when
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Categories (1), (2)
and (3) (a) in Schedule 1 hereto, the foregoing amount being subject
to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.

2.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, a Project State shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i)  a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by a Project State for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1995.

3.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Project State or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:

      (a)   require the Project State to carry out the Sub-project
or Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Sub-project or Sub-projects;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and
construction included in the Sub-project or Sub-projects, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Project State shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder

to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Project State
to replace or repair such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing; and

      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Project State to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.