World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3283 MOR

                  (Port Sector Project - Kingdom)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated May 9, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3283 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1991, between the KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      (B)   by an agreement (the ODEP Port Sector Loan Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Bank and Office d’Exploitation des
Ports (ODEP), the Bank has agreed to make a loan to ODEP to assist
in the financing of a project (the Port Sector Project - ODEP) to
improve the operational efficiency of the ports operated by ODEP and
to improve the institutional capabilities and operations of ODEP, on
the terms and conditions set forth in the ODEP Port Sector Loan
Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Port Sub-sector Development Program" means the
Borrower’s medium-term program for the development of the port sub-
sector to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
coincides with the calendar year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31;

      (d)   "Port Investment Program" means the Borrower’s annual
investment program for the construction, development and rehabili-
tation (including dredging) of the infrastructure and related
facilities of its ports, to be implemented in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Sub-project" means any sub-project included under Part
A of the Project, and to be partially financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-three million dollars ($33,000,000) being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special account in a currency and a financial
institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly

notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, commercial, engineering and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out the environmental
studies, included in Part C.1 (b) of the Project, in respect of
dredging activities in the Ports of Agadir, Kenitra, Larache and
Safi and furnish to the Bank said studies, including the Borrower’s
recommendations based thereon, not later than December 31, 1991; and
(ii) ensure that the dredging activities included in Part A.3 of the
Project in respect of said Ports shall be carried out in accordance
with such recommendations, based on said studies, as shall have been
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 3.02. For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) identify and appraise each Sub-
project, based on a methodology and procedures acceptable to the
Bank; and (b) thereafter, furnish such Sub-project to the Bank for
its review and approval.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comment, not later than September 30 in each Fiscal Year during
which the Project is carried out, starting Fiscal Year ending
December 31, 1991, the Borrower’s proposed Port Investment Program
for the following Fiscal Year, together with a proposed plan for the
financing of said investment program; and

      (b)   thereafter, finalize said Port Investment Program,
taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon and take all
measures necessary to ensure its prompt implementation.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, and those for the
                  Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such

detail as the Bank shall have reasonably request-
                  ed; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry out the Port Sub-sector
Development Program with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial, economic, and
engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ODEP Port
Sector Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministcre des Finances
            Rabat

Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINISTERE FINANCES        36715,
                  Rabat, Morocco            36936 or
                                            36147

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                  By /s/ Mohammed Belkhayat
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                              SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works under:

    (a) Parts A.1 (a),        16,300,000 )
        A.1 (b) and                      )
        A.3 of the                       )
        Project                          )      64%
                                         )
    (b) Part A.1 (c)           2,100,000 )
        of the Project                   )

(2) Goods under:                         )      100% of foreign
                                         )      expenditures,
    (a) Parts B and              600,000 )      100% of local
        C.2 of the                       )      expenditures
        Project                          )      (ex-factory
                                         )      cost) and 70%
    (b) Part A.1 (c)           4,500,000 )      of local ex-
        of the Project                   )      penditures for
                                         )      other items pro-
                                         )      cured locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’               2,300,000        100%
    services and
    training

(4) Unallocated                7,200,000
                               _________

    TOTAL                     33,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the opera-
tional efficiency of the Borrower’s ports, so as to assist the
Borrower in adapting its operations to the growth and changing
structure of foreign trade; (ii) assist the Borrower in strengthen-
ing the economic viability of its investments in the port sub-sector
generally, and increasing the recovery of related infrastructure
costs; and (iii) promote policies and institutional measures for
improving the planning and coordination of the Borrower’s port
operations in relation to its promotion of foreign trade.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

1.    Carrying out of selected priority Sub-projects under the
Borrower’s Port Investment Program, including, inter alia: (a) re-
habilitation and upgrading of the breakwater at the Borrower’s Port
of Casablanca; (b) rehabilitation and upgrading of the breakwater at
the Borrower’s Ports of Tangiers and Agadir; and (c) installation of
a control tower, and provision of related equipment, and carrying
out of civil works, all as required for marine security at the
Borrower’s ports;

2.    Carrying out of other selected activities under the Borrower’s
Port Investment Program, including, inter alia: (a) rehabilitation
and upgrading of the breakwater at the Borrower’s Ports of Safi, El
Jadida and Essaouira; (b) a program to maintain the Borrower’s Ports
of Casablanca and Mohammedia; and

3.    Carrying out of a rehabilitation and maintenance dredging
program at the Borrower’s main ports.

Part B:

      Acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials
required for port security and environmental protection.

Part C:

1.    Carrying out of: (a) a study to update the Borrower’s national
port master plan; and (b) studies to determine the extent and impact
of the contamination of sediments to be dredged from the Borrower’s
ports, to identify measures for eliminating the sources of such
contamination and to develop dredging and disposal procedures to
ensure that the dredging activities in the Borrower’s ports are
carried out in an environmentally sound manner; and

2.    Carrying out of a training program, including in-service
training, fellowships, seminars and provision of training aids.

                           *   *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

September 15, 1996                                   600,000
March 15, 1997                                       625,000
September 15, 1997                                   650,000
March 15, 1998                                       675,000
September 15, 1998                                   700,000
March 15, 1999                                       730,000
September 15, 1999                                   755,000
March 15, 2000                                       785,000
September 15, 2000                                   815,000
March 15, 2001                                       845,000
September 15, 2001                                   880,000
March 15, 2002                                       915,000
September 15, 2002                                   950,000
March 15, 2003                                       985,000
September 15, 2003                                 1,025,000
March 15, 2004                                     1,065,000
September 15, 2004                                 1,105,000
March 15, 2005                                     1,145,000
September 15, 2005                                 1,190,000
March 15, 2006                                     1,235,000
September 15, 2006                                 1,285,000
March 15, 2007                                     1,335,000
September 15, 2007                                 1,385,000
March 15, 2008                                     1,440,000
September 15, 2008                                 1,495,000
March 15, 2009                                     1,550,000
September 15, 2009                                 1,610,000
March 15, 2010                                     1,675,000
September 15, 2010                                 1,740,000
March 15, 2011                                     1,810,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                        Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment            Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years           0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but           0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but             0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not      0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not     0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before     1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Limited international bidding:

      Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one
million dollars ($1,000,000) per contract, but more than the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the

basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at
least five qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Local competitive bidding:

      Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000),
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

3.    Shopping:

      Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million dollars
($1,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three (3) suppliers from at least two (2) different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decision

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the first contract for civil works or
goods irrespective of the estimated value thereof, awarded under the
procedures referred to in Parts A and C hereof, and with respect to
each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Categories, and in the re-
                  spective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all

further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.