World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3383 POL

   (Heat Supply Restructuring and Conservation (Credit) Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

              WIELKOPOLSKI BANK KREDYTOWY W POZNANIU

                     Dated September 16, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3383 POL
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and WIELKOPOLSKI
BANK KREDYTOWY W POZNANIU (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in
an amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between EBRD
and the Borrower;

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                        General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
April 11, 1989, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Statement of Policy" means the Borrower’s statement of
lending and investment policy as adopted and approved by the Board
of Directors of the Borrower on April 15, 1989, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Beneficiary" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (d)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a
Sub-project; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Investment Projects and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account on its books
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable

semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with its Statutes and its Statement of Policy.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) Sub-loans will be made in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
6 to this Agreement; and (ii) (A) the amount of any Sub-loan or the
aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made to any one Beneficiary shall
not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000, and (B) the aggregate
amount of all Sub-loans made for less than the equivalent of
$100,000 each, shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.

      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights in relation
to each Sub-project in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, comply with its obligations under this
Agreement, and achieve the purposes of the Project; and (ii)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and the
carrying out by Beneficiaries of their respective Sub-projects in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, its accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and records
                   and accounts for the Special Account and for the
                   separate account referred to in Section 4.03 of
                   this Agreement for each fiscal year audited in
                   accordance with sound auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                   any case not later than seven months after the
                   end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                   said financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.

(b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   open by the date on which it shall receive the first
repayment of principal under any of the Sub-loans, and, thereafter,
maintain a separate account on its books in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and

      (b)   upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to
the said separate account. All amounts so credited shall be utilized
by the Borrower, to the extent they are not yet required to meet the
Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank under this Agreement,
exclusively to finance specific development projects similar to the
Sub-projects on terms and conditions similar to those applicable to
the Sub-loans.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies used in its operations.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Statutes or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to perform any of its obligations
under this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the EBRD Loan shall have been
                         suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                         the EBRD Loan Agreement, or

                    (B)  the EBRD Loan shall have become due and

payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that:

                   (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                         or prematuring is not caused by the
                         failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                         its obligations under the EBRD Loan
                         Agreement; and

                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                         available to the Borrower from other
                         sources on terms and conditions consistent
                         with the obligations of the Borrower under
                         this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EBRD Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those selected
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                          ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

            For the Borrower:

Wielkopolski Bank
                     Kredytowy w Poznaniu
                   Plac Wolnosci 15
                   60-967 Poznan
                   Poland

                                           Telex:

                                             414502

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as
of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                         WIELKOPOLSKI BANK KREDYTOWY W POZNANIU

                         By /s/ F. Pospiech
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account to finance 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) of goods and 100% for consultants’
services.

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in financing such
productive facilities and resources in Guarantor’s territory as will
contribute to the further development of the district heating
subsector.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      The financing, through loans to district heating enterprises,
of specific development projects to rehabilitate and modernize
existing district heat facilities, including, to: (a) extend network
life and minimize network leakage; (b) ensure better load dispatch
and temperature reduction; (c) improve load management and reduce
energy losses; (d) facilitate accurate metering of both energy
purchased from combined heat and power plants and energy sold to
residential and industrial customers; and (e) reduce air pollution
through small coal boilers replacement by, and conversion to, gas-
fired boilers.

Part B:

      The financing, through loans to enterprises, other than
district heating enterprises, involved in the production and sale of
heat and steam, of specific development projects to rehabilitate and
expand their heat and steam production facilities and to reduce
energy losses and air pollution.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On June 1 and December 1

      beginning December 1, 1996             835,000
      through December 1, 2007

On June 1, 2008                              795,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the

premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods which the Bank agrees are supplied through a limited
number of sources, may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of bids obtained from a list, acceptable to the Bank,
of qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for items which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary
nature may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for Sub-projects
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph B.2 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out
of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expen-
ditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the
Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to para- graph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

      The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Annex shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.

A.    Terms

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in dollars (determined as of the date or dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan for the Sub-project.

2.    Sub-loans shall each: (a) be made for a period not exceeding
ten years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three years;
and (b) be charged, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, interest at the rate of interest
applicable to loans made by the Borrower pursuant to the Statement
of Policy.

3.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect its interest and those of the Bank, including
the right to:

      (a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any revelant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risk
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practices; and (ii) without limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;

      (e)   require that the Beneficary shall: (i) maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition; (ii) have its records and accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) furnish to the Borrower,
for forwarding to the Bank as the Bank shall so request, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than seven months after the end
of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements for
such year as so audited and the report of such audit, of such scope

and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

      (f)   obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the
benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.

B.    Conditions

1.    Sub-loans shall be made:

      (a)   to Beneficiaries which each shall have established, to
the satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank, that: (i) it is creditworthy, and has a
sound financial structure and the organization, management, staff
and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the
Sub-project; (ii) its projected internal cash generation or equity
increases and the provision of other financing obtained by it shall
be sufficient to enable it to carry out the core master plan
referred to in subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph and to meet the
estimated expenditures required for carrying out of Sub-project;
(iii) it is in a position, and has undertaken, to achieve and
maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 times and, as
of fiscal year 1992, a net internal cash generation ratio of at
least 30%; and (iv) in respect of each Beneficary under Part A of
the Project, it has developed and undertaken to carry out a core
master plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the optimization of
existing facilities; and

      (b)   for Sub-projects which are each determined by the
Borrower, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank: (i) to
be a suitable part of the core master plan referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) (ii) of this paragraph; (ii) to be technically
feasible with an appropriate implementation time-schedule; and (iii)
to have an economic rate of return of at least 15%.

2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the application and information required under
paragraph 5 (a) of this Part in respect of such Sub-loan; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the request and information required under paragraph
5 (b) of this Part in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the
purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a
Sub-project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $1,000,000 equi- valent, when
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which have been or are
being used for financing goods and services directly and materially
related to such Sub-project.

3.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as

the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.