World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3486 RO

          (Private Farmer and Enterprise Support Project)

                              between

                              ROMANIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 15, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3486 RO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1992, between ROMANIA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural Bank
(AB) and the Romanian Bank for Development (DB) with the Borrower’s
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to AB and DB the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and AB and DB, respectively;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "AB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and AB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the AB Project Agreement;

      (b)   "DB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and DB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the DB Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Project Agreements" means the AB Project Agreement and
the DB Project Agreement;

      (d)   "AB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AB pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the AB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the term "AB Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be
made pursuant to the AB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "DB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DB pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the DB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the term "DB Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be
made pursuant to the DB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the AB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the DB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "AB Charter" means Decision No. 1196 of the Borrower’s
Government, dated November 12, 1990, pertaining to the establishment
and operations of AB;

      (h)   "DB Charter" means Decision No. 1178 of the Borrower’s
Government, dated November 2, 1990, pertaining to the establishment
and operations of  DB;

      (i)   "AB Operational Guidelines" means the statement of
lending and investment policy and procedures referred to in Section
2.01 (b) of the AB Project Agreement;

      (j)   "DB Operational Guidelines" means the statement of
lending and investment policy and procedures referred to in Section
2.01 (b) of the DB Project Agreement;

      (k)   "AB Strategic Plan" means AB’s plan of actions for the
strengthening of its organization and operations referred to in
Section 2.01 (c) of the AB Project Agreement;

      (l)   "DB Strategic Plan" means the DB plan of actions for the
strengthening of its organization and operations referred to in
Section 2.01 (c) of the DB Project Agreement;

      (m)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
AB or DB in part out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary

for a Sub-project;

      (n)   "Beneficiary" means a private farmer or farmers’
association or a private sector agroprocessing, marketing or service
enterprise to which AB or DB proposes to make or has made a
Sub-loan;

      (o)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (q)   "Lei" means Lei in the currency of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by AB or DB on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary
under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in AB on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after        July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined other-
                   wise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
                  Use of the Proceeds of the Loan

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause AB and DB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
AB Project Agreement and the DB Project Agreement, respectively, all
the obligations of AB and DB therein set forth, shall take or cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable AB and DB to perform such obligations, including the carrying
out by AB of the AB Strategic Plan and by DB of the DB Strategic
Plan, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to AB
and DB under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and each of AB and DB, respectively, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the

Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.

      (d)   The Borrower shall: (i) coordinate and monitor the
execution of the Project and supervise the carrying out by AB and DB
of their obligations under the AB Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
DB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) ensure that (A)  Sub-
loans shall not be made for the financing of such categories of on-
farm production and business development as shall be specified by
the Bank by notice to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of views
on the matter between the Borrower and the Bank to be undertaken on
a bi-annual basis, (B) the financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
of working capital shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $10,000,000, and shall be limited to the financing of the
Beneficiaries’ requirements for incremental working capital on
account of increased production generated through the Sub-projects,
and (C) the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans, or the amount of any
one Sub-loan, made by AB and DB, or any one of them, to any one
Beneficiary shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.

      (e)   The Borrower and the Bank agree that, for the purposes
of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the AB Project Agreement and DB Project
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan, as referred to in said paragraphs,
shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project, other than any one of the
first six Sub-loans to be made by each of AB and DB, in an amount to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of (i) $200,000 equivalent, when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, which have been or are being used for
financing goods and services directly and materially related to such
Sub-project (ii) $70,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other
free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Bank.

      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AB
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AB Project Agreement, and by DB
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the DB Project Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 1994, a report
integrating available data on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the Project during the period preceeding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the proper
carrying out of the Project during the period following such date;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review with
the Borrower the conclusions and recommendations of said report; and

      (c)   thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
proper carrying out of the Project during such period based on the
conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s
comments thereon.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                   including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                   to whether the statements of expenditure submit-
                   ted during such fiscal year, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   AB or DB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the AB Project Agreement or the DB Project
Agreement, respectively.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that AB or DB will be able to perform
its obligations under the AB Project Agreement or the DB Project
Agreement, respectively.

      (c)   The AB Charter, the DB Charter, the AB Statement of
Policy or the DB Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of AB or DB
or its respective ability to carry out its activities under the
Project or to perform any of its obligations under the AB Project
Agreement or the DB Project Agreement, respectively.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of AB or DB or for the suspension of its respective operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the parties thereto; and

      (b)   the AB Operational Guidelines have been adopted by AB
and the DB Operational Guidelines have been adopted by DB.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the AB Project Agreement and the DB Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by AB and DB,
respectively, and are legally binding upon AB and DB in accordance
with their respective terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the parties
thereto in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            17, Apolodor Str.
            Sector 5, Bucharest
            Romania

                                           Telex:

                                             11239

  For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         ROMANIA

                         By /s/ Mihai Croitoru
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans for            20,000,000)
    on-farm                            )
    production                         )
                                       )             80%
(2) Other Sub-               80,000,000)
    loans                              )

                             ___________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to the
AB Project Agreement or the Schedule to the DB Project Agreement;
and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to promote the economic and
social development of rural areas through increased private sector
agricultural and business activities.

      The Project consists of the operation of a credit facility for
the financing of specific development projects by private farmers
and private sector businesses to increase on-farm production and to
establish and expand the operations of agroprocessing marketing and
service enterprises, as the same is subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to
time to achieve such objective.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning February 15, 1998
      through   February 15, 2009          4,165,000

on August 15, 2009                         4,205,000
_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Sub-projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an aggregate
amount equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the

amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdraw-
als shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 5

              Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary
                          Loan Agreements

      The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of each of the AB Subsidiary Loan and the
DB Subsidiary Loan shall be:

      (a)   the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal
of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof; and

      (b)   denominated in dollars and Lei, with the portion thereof
denominated in dollars being the sum total of the Sub-loans made out
of its proceeds and denominated in dollars, and with the portion
thereof denominated in Lei being the sum total of the Sub-loans made
out of its proceeds and denominated in Lei.

2.    The portion of each of the AB Subsidiary Loan and the DB
Subsidiary Loan denominated in: (a) dollars shall be charged, on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, interest, during each six-month period commencing on January
1 and July 1 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a
margin, as shall be calculated by the Borrower on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (b) Lei shall be charged, on
the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, interest, during each six-month period commencing on January

1 and July 1 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to the redis-
count rate of the National Bank of Romania.

3.    Each of the AB Subsidiary Loan and the DB Subsidiary Loan
shall be made for a period not exceeding 17 years, inclusive of a
grace period not exceeding five years.

                            SCHEDULE 6

              Modifications of the General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

3.    The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph (c) of
      paragraph 4 of the Schedule to the AB Project Agreement and of
      the Schedule to the DB Project Agreement (as such Agreements
      are defined in Section 1.02 (a) and (b) of the Loan Agree-
      ment), the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan:
      (i) have received no applications or requests under subpara-
      graphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any
      such applications or requests. The Bank may, by notice to the
      Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
      applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."