World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3441 EGT

                     (Kureimat Power Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                  EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY

                       Dated March 30, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3441 EGT

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1992 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY
AUTHORITY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Arab Republic of Egypt (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower
has obtained, under arrangements with the Guarantor: (i) a loan from
the African Development Bank in the amount of $350,000,000
equivalent, (ii) a loan from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social

Development in the amount of $125,000,000 equivalent, (iii) a loan
from the Guarantor (the proceeds of which were provided as a grant
to the Guarantor from the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia)
in the amount of about $50,000,000 equivalent, and (iv) a loan from
the Guarantor (the proceeds of which were provided as a grant to the
Guarantor from the United States Agency for International Develop-
ment) in an amount of about $200,000,000; and

      (D)   in order to optimize utilization of its energy re-
sources, the Guarantor has adopted and communicated to the Bank, in
June 1991, as a part of a comprehensive economic reform program,
measures for the gradual adjustment of energy prices; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                           ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "EGPC" means the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
of the Guarantor;

      (c)   "Co-financing Amount" means the resources referred to in
Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EGPC pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Kureimat Power Station" means the power station to be
constructed under Part A (1) of the Project;

      (f)   "EDC" means any Egyptian Electricity Distribution
Company; and

      (g)   "Fiscal year" means any fiscal year of the Borrower,
covering the period from July 1 in any calendar year to June 30 in
the following calendar year.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,

various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred twenty million dollars ($220,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank or in the Guarantor’s Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; such conditions shall include, if the
Special Account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans made by the
                  Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                  determined otherwise than as provided in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to

time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      (c)   For the purpose of constructing the gas pipeline
referred to in Part A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall
conclude, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a
subsidiary loan agreement with EGPC which shall provide, inter alia,
for:

            (i)   the obligation of the Borrower to onlend to EGPC
                  the proceeds of the Loan allocated for the supply
                  of materials and equipment required for such
                  pipeline under Category (1) (b) of the table set
                  forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

           (ii)   the obligation of EGPC (A) to complete the con-
                  struction and operation of such pipeline in
                  accordance with a time schedule which shall
                  assure timely and adequate supply of natural gas
                  to the Kureimat Power Station, (B) to repay the
                  amount onlent to it by the Borrower under the
                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement over an amortization
                  period not exceeding the period specified for the
                  amortization of the Loan pursuant to Schedule 3
                  to this Agreement, with interest at an annual
                  rate identical to that applicable to the Loan
                  from time to time pursuant to the provisions of
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, and (C) to make
                  the debt service payments with respect to the
                  amount onlent to it by the Borrower under the
                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the same amount of
                  currency or currencies in which debt service
                  payments with respect to the corresponding amount

of the Loan shall be made by the Borrower to the
                  Bank, or, at the option of the Borrower, the
                  equivalent thereof in the Guarantor’s currency,
                  determined as of the respective dates of such
                  debt service payments.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall continue to carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
engineering, administrative, financial and public utility practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and discuss with
the Bank, not later than December 31, 1992, arrangements for
insurance of assets of the Borrower, including its major power
generation facilities, against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices, and
(b) by June 30, 1996, acquire and maintain such insurance in
accordance with such arrangements, taking into account the Bank’s
comments thereon.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) of the Borrower,
                  and of the EDCs and the records and accounts for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, (A) certified copies of the
                  financial statements of the Borrower and of the
                  EDCs for such year as so audited, (B) the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, and (C) proforma consolidated accounts
                  of the Borrower and the EDCs; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
            from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of

expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall, except as may otherwise
be agreed with the Bank: (i) produce funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 20% for fiscal year 1991/1992, 30% for
fiscal year 1992/1993 and 35% for each of the following fiscal years
of the annual average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures
incurred (or expected to be incurred) during such year, the
preceding fiscal year and the following fiscal year; and (ii) not
incur a debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the internal cash
generation of the Borrower for the twelve-month period preceding the
incurrence of such debt would be less than 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on
the debt of the Borrower.

      (b)   At the middle of each fiscal year, the Borrower shall
review, on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, its
ability to meet the requirements stated in paragraph (a) of this
Section, and shall take, on the basis of such review, the measures,
if any, required therefor.

      (c)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:

            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources relat-
                        ed to operations, consumer deposits and
                        consumer contribution in aid of construc-
                        tion and net non-operating income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions, including administration, adequate
                        maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                        of taxes (excluding provision for deprecia-
                        tion and other non-cash operating charges),
                        debt services requirements, all cash divi-
                        dends and other cash distributions of
                        surplus and other cash outflows other than
                        capital expenditures.

           (ii)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in

lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayment (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

           (iv)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
                  ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction relat-
                  ed to operation.

            (v)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for
                  the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Guarantor and the
                  Bank.

           (vi)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally in-
                  curred.

          (vii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument, but only to
                  the extent that the amount of such debt has
                  become outstanding; and (B) under a guarantee
                  agreement, on the date the agreement providing
                  for such guarantee has been entered into but only
                  to the extent that the guaranteed debt is out-
                  standing.

         (viii)   The term "internal cash generation" means gross
                  revenues from all sources related to operations,
                  less all expenses related to operations, includ-
                  ing maintenance and administration and all taxes
                  or payments in lieu of taxes, but before provi-
                  sion for depreciation of assets (including provi-
                  sions not involving movement of cash but which
                  are treated as operating expenses under the
                  uniform system of account of the Guarantor) and
                  interest and other charges on debt.

      Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take all action required to
ensure, starting with the fiscal year ending on June 30, 1992, that
the amounts remaining outstanding in the accounts receivable for the
sale of electricity shall not exceed, at any time, the equivalent of
three months average revenues of electricity sales.

      Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1993,
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comments, the financial and
cost accounting system, referred in Part B (4) of the Project; and
(b) implement such system by December 31, 1994, taking into account
the Bank’s comments thereon.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)   Law No. 12 of 1976 regulating the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended or repealed so as to affect materially and
adversely the Borrower’s ability to carry out its obligations under
this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any part of the Co-financing
                        Amount shall have been suspended, cancelled
                        or terminated pursuant to the terms of the
                        agreement providing therefor; or

                  (B)   any loan included in the Co-financing
                        Amount shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Bank that (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation or prematuring is not caused by the
                  failure of the Borrower to perform its obliga-
                  tions under the agreement concerning the relevant
                  Co-financing Amount; and (B) adequate funds for
                  the Project are available to the Borrower on
                  terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
                  tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01
shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Guarantor has taken the action referred to in
Section 2.03 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement; and

      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been concluded between
the Borrower and EGPC.

      Section 7.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI)
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Egyptian Electricity Authority
            Nasr City, Abbasiah
            Cairo
            Arab Republic of Egypt

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  ELECTROCOP                92097 POWER UN
                  Cairo, Egypt

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                  EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY

                  By /s/ El Sayed Abdel Raouf El Reedy
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
    materials                                   expenditures and
    (including                                  100% of local
    installation                                expenditures (ex-
    cost):                                      factory cost)

    (a)  for Part A (1)       93,800,000
         of the Project

    (b)  for Part A (2)       37,000,000
         of the Project

(c)  for Part A (3)       58,600,000
         of the Project

    (d)  for Part B of         5,900,000
         the Project

(2) Consultants’ ser-          2,900,000        100% of foreign
    vices and training                          expenditures
    for Part B of the
    Project

(3) Unallocated               21,800,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               220,000,000
                             ===========

2.For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (a) meeting
the growing demand for electricity, (b) improving the efficiency and
reliability of the Borrower’s interconnected power system, and (c)
improving the Borrower’s financial position and technical capabili-
ties.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Power Station and Related Facilities

(1)   Construction, at Kureimat in the Giza Governorate, of a dual
fuel (oil and natural gas) fired thermal power station (the Kureimat
Power Station) with a net installed capacity of 1,200 MW.

(2)   Construction of about 162 km of a 20-inch diameter natural gas
pipeline, interconnecting the Kureimat Power Station to the gas
grid.

(3)   Supply and installation of (a) about 150 km of 500-kV
transmission lines interconnecting the Kureimat Power Station to the
Borrower’s unified power system, (b) about 90 km of 220-kV transmis-
sion lines to assist in transmission of power to the load centers,
(c) equipment for rehabilitation of the Tanta sub-station to improve
the reliability of the Borrower’s transmission system, and (d)
capacitors to improve the efficiency of power transmission from
power stations to the load centers.

Part B:     Institutional Development

      Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower, including
experts’ services, equipment and materials, required for: (1)
detailed engineering under the Project, (2) training of staff, (3)
establishment of a data bank and a management information system,

including a system for management of the Project, (4) the prepara-
tion and implementation of a computerized financial and cost
accounting system, and (5) introduction of an efficient load
management system.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

December 1, 1997                                4,010,000
June 1, 1998                                    4,165,000
December 1, 1998                                4,330,000
June 1, 1999                                    4,495,000
December 1, 1999                                4,670,000
June 1, 2000                                    4,850,000
December 1, 2000                                5,035,000
June 1, 2001                                    5,230,000
December 1, 2001                                5,435,000
June 1, 2002                                    5,645,000
December 1, 2002                                5,860,000
June 1, 2003                                    6,090,000
December 1, 2003                                6,325,000
June 1, 2004                                    6,570,000
December 1, 2004                                6,820,000
June 1, 2005                                    7,085,000
December 1, 2005                                7,360,000
June 1, 2006                                    7,645,000
December 1, 2006                                7,940,000
June 1, 2007                                    8,245,000
December 1, 2007                                8,565,000
June 1, 2008                                    8,895,000
December 1, 2008                                9,240,000
June 1, 2009                                    9,595,000
December 1, 2009                                9,970,000
June 1, 2010                                   10,355,000
December 1, 2010                               10,755,000
June 1, 2011                                   11,170,000
December 1, 2011                               11,600,000
June 1, 2012                                   12,050,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items of small equipment such as valves, special pipes,
training and data bank equipment, measuring instruments, recorders
and relays, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$70,000 per contract and $500,000 in the aggregate may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Items of equipment required to be procured from the original
suppliers of the facility referred to in Part A (3) (c) of the
Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $100,000
in the aggregate, may be procured on the basis of contracts
negotiated directly with such suppliers, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account

in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
activities referred to in Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Any such
consultants whose employment may be financed from the proceeds of
the Loan shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

(1)   Technical and Environmental Requirements

      The Borrower shall:

      (a)   ensure the continuing employment of the engineering
consultants required to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part A (1) and A (3) (a) of the Project until the completion
thereof;

      (b)   cause such consultants, with respect to the Kureimat
Power Station, to install pollution monitoring equipment and to
start background pollution measurement by March 31, 1993, and to
prepare and furnish to the Bank, starting in October 1993, semi-
annual reports on such measurement;

      (c)   ensure, in the engineering design of steam generators,
that adequate space is provided for future installation of particu-
lates (dust) collecting devices, if necessary;

      (d)   ensure that adequate measures are taken during the
design, construction, operation and maintenance of the Kureimat
Power Station to comply with the environmental standards of the
Guarantor and the Borrower regarding stack emissions, ambient air
quality, water quality, effluent treatment, discharge of water in
the river and noise pollution;

      (e)   establish, by December 31, 1992, an adequately staffed
environmental management unit to be responsible for the monitoring
and enforcement of environmental standards regarding the construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of the Kureimat Power Station; and

      (f)   ensure that no equipment procured for the transmission
lines or substations included in Part A of the Project shall use
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) and take appropriate measures for
the handling, dismantling and disposal of old equipment containing
PCB.

(2)Reporting

      The Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, through the environmental management unit
referred to in Part (1) (e) of this Schedule, and furnish to the
Bank, on a format agreeable to the Bank, semi-annual reports on the
environmental aspects of the Project; and

      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Bank brief monthly and
detailed semi-annual reports on progress in the carrying out of the
Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the

respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligibleexpenditures.
 
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.