World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3484 MA

              (Third FELCRA Land Development Project)

                              between

                             MALAYSIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 13, 1992

                                               Loan Number 3484 MA

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1992, between MALAYSIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Federal Land

Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to FELCRA the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and FELCRA;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "FELCRA" means the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority established under the National Land
Rehabilitation and Consolidation Authority (Incorporation) Act of
1966, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and

      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and FELCRA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety-four million dollars ($94,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to

time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

             (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Director General of FELCRA is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action

required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause FELCRA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of FELCRA therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable FELCRA to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to FELCRA.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by FELCRA
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   FELCRA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that FELCRA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The National Land Rehabilitation and Consolidation
Authority (Incorporation) Act of 1966 as amended to the date hereof,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FELCRA to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FELCRA or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by FELCRA, and is legally binding upon
FELCRA in accordance with its terms.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Treasury
            Jalan Duta
            50592 Kuala Lumpur
            Malaysia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   TREASURY                  MA 30242
                   Kuala Lumpur              MA 32369

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                   Cable address:          Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         MALAYSIA

                               /s/ A. D. M. Mohamed
                         By
                                         Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                               /s/ M. Callisto
                         By
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Agricultural              58,300,000        37%
     Development

(2)  Civil works               17,300,000        37%

(3)  Vehicles, tractors,       15,400,000        100% of foreign
     trailers, speedboats,                       expenditures,
     equipment and furniture                     100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75% of
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other times
                                                 procured locally

(4)  Training, including        1,900,000        100%
     overseas training,
     lecture fees for local
     training and training
     materials

(5)  Studies                    1,100,000        100%
                               __________

     TOTAL                     94,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

     (c)  the term "Agricultural Development" means the goods, works
and services required for land preparation, planting, crop
maintenance and associated infrastructure of schemes being developed
by FELCRA, including fertilizers and chemicals, and planting
materials.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for

expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,400,000, may be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after December 1, 1991.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to increase the level and
efficiency of agricultural production and improve the income and
living conditions of rural households in Malaysia, and to support
the institutional development of FELCRA.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Agricultural Development and Improved Crop
        Production Technology

(1)  Rehabilitation of about 48,000 ha of idle agricultural land
     through land preparation and crop establishment.

(2)  Maintenance of crops in an area of about 120,000 ha, including
     weeding, pest control, pruning and sanitation, soil and foliar
     analysis, provision of fertilizers and chemicals, and the
     carrying out of farm infrastructure maintenance works,
     including roads, fences, bridges and drains.

(3)  Improvement of productivity in rubber and oil palm through the
     introduction of advanced technology.

Part B: Infrastructure

     Construction of: (1) agricultural scheme infrastructure,
including access roads, office facilities, staff housing, stores,
water and electricity supply systems, and harvesting facilities; (2)
State offices; and (3) training centers.

Part C: Institutional Development

     The carrying out of a program to strengthen FELCRA including:

(1)  the establishment of a Plantation Division and a Finance
     Division, and the expansion of the Scheme Inspectorate;

(2)  the introduction of measures to improve FELCRA’s accounting and
     financial management systems;

(3)  continuing its pilot program to devolve to beneficiary
     institutions the management of palm oil processing mills and
     agricultural schemes which have repaid their land development
     loans; and

(4)  the provision of training to FELCRA’s staff, beneficiaries of
     agricultural schemes and cooperative members and their families
     and field workers.

Part D: Studies

     The carrying out of:

(1)  A study of the financial management of FELCRA covering, inter
     alia, its accounting policies, procedures and internal
     controls, and job descriptions of the Finance Division referred
     to under Part C (1) of the Project.

(2)  A study of rural industries to identify effective methods for
     the promotion of small-scale rural industries.

(3)  A study of production cost to review and compare unit costs of

FELCRA’s operations in immature and mature oil palm and rubber
     schemes with those of the estate sector of the industry.

Part E: Equipment and Vehicles

(1)  Provision of equipment, including computer facilities,
     weighbridges, miscellaneous field implements, and office
     equipment and furniture.

(2)  Provision of vehicles, tractors, trailers and speedboats.

                             *   *   *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                        Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

     beginning November 15, 1997
     through November 15, 2008            3,915,000

     and on May 15, 2009                  3,955,000

__________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity