World Bank Document

LOAN NUMBER 3539 PH

                    (Economic Integration Loan)

                              between

                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 23, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3539 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) The Bank has received a letter dated October 16,
1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
and services required during such execution; and

      WHEREAS: (B) On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance
to the Borrower by making the Loan in two (2) tranches as hereinafter
provided.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
            may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant
            to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."

      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have
                   arisen under which any further withdrawals
                   under the Loan would be inconsistent with
                   the provisions of Article III, Section 3
                   of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
            such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
            the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
            furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
            detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the exe-
            cution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the
            Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
            Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
            Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Loan."; and

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Philippines,
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Republic Act No.
265, dated June 15, 1948, as amended;

      (b)   "Energy Sector Plan" means the Borrower’s proposed plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for reforming the Borrower’s energy and
power sectors and promoting energy efficiency, both at the national
and local levels, to be implemented by the Borrower and its electri-
city power generation and transmission utilities and related power
entities;

      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corres-
ponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences
on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;

      (d)   "Government Corporation" means a corporation which is
established by a law or decree of the Borrower, or incorporated and
organized under the Borrower’s Corporation Code and in which the
Borrower possesses, directly or indirectly, ownership of the majority
of the capital or has voting control, and which corporation has been
selected for privatization under the Program, and such term includes
any subsidiary of any such corporation;

      (e)   "Peso" means the Borrower’s currency unit; and

      (f)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classifica-
tion, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).

                            ARTICLE II

The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                   on the date immediately preceding each date spe-
                   cified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, begin-
                   ning with the Interest Period in which this
                   Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                   reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                   as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                   borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                   1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                   the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                   be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                   interest rates determined otherwise than as
                   provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
(6) months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates

applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                   "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on August 1 and February 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Borrower’s Department of Finance shall have
the responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications
under the Loan, and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be con-
solidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not
less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b)  The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                   Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                   cerning said records and accounts and the audit

                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.

(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                   records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                   ed in the annual audits referred to in paragraph
                   (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                   audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                   tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                   submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with
                   the procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Republic of the Philippines

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   SECFIN                        40268
                   Manila                        CB-CONF

      For the Bank:

International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT).

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                               /s/ Pablo R. Suarez

                         By
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                               /s/ Gautam S. Kaji

                         By
                                           Regional Vice President
                                            East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group        Subgroup   Description of Items

      112             --      Alcoholic beverages

      121             --      Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                              refuse

      122             --      Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                              containing tobacco substitutes)

      525             --      Radioactive and associated materials

      667             --      Pearls, precious and semi-precious

stones, unworked or worked

      718          718.1      Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
                              fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                              irradiated for nuclear reactors

      728          728.43     Tobacco processing machinery

      897          897.3      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                              group metals (except watches and
                              watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                              silversmiths’ wares (including set
                              gems)

      971             --      Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold ores
                              and concentrates)

      (b)   Expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower,
excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services supplied
from the territory of such other country;

      (c)   Payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceed-
ing the equivalent of forty million dollars ($40,000,000) may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after September 1, 1992;

      (d)   Expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000);

      (e)   Expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (f)   Expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and

      (g)   Expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to forty million dollars ($40,000,000) for petroleum products and
foodstuffs.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than five million dollars
($5,000,000) may be required by the Bank upon the basis of statements
of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the equi-
valent of one hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000), unless
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above,
the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within ninety
(90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      August 1, 1998                      3,685,000.00
      February 1, 1999                    3,825,000.00
      August 1, 1999                      3,970,000.00
      February 1, 2000                    4,125,000.00
      August 1, 2000                      4,280,000.00
      February 1, 2001                    4,445,000.00
      August 1, 2001                      4,610,000.00
      February 1, 2002                    4,785,000.00
      August 1, 2002                      4,970,000.00
      February 1, 2003                    5,155,000.00
      August 1, 2003                      5,355,000.00
      February 1, 2004                    5,555,000.00
      August 1, 2004                      5,770,000.00
      February 1, 2005                    5,985,000.00
      August 1, 2005                      6,215,000.00
      February 1, 2006                    6,450,000.00
      August 1, 2006                      6,695,000.00
      February 1, 2007                    6,950,000.00
      August 1, 2007                      7,215,000.00
      February 1, 2008                    7,490,000.00
      August 1, 2008                      7,775,000.00
      February 1, 2009                    8,070,000.00
      August 1, 2009                      8,375,000.00
      February 1, 2010                    8,695,000.00
      August 1, 2010                      9,025,000.00
      February 1, 2011                    9,365,000.00
      August 1, 2011                      9,725,000.00
      February 1, 2012                   10,090,000.00
      August 1, 2012                     10,475,000.00
      February 1, 2013                   10,875,000.00

_____________________________

*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents, determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, at
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed as
                                     a percentage per annum) applic-
                                     able to the Loan on the day of
                                     prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years            0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but            0.30
not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but              0.55
      not more than eleven
      years before maturity

More than eleven years but           0.80
      not more than sixteen
      years before maturity

More than sixteen years but          0.90
      not more than eighteen
      years before maturity

More than eighteen years             1.00
      before maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000) or more each shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

            "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for pre-qualification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

            (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or

            (iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                   quired."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than five million dollars ($5,000,000) shall be
awarded:

      (a)   By purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

      (b)   By other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two (2) countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international commodity

markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two (2)
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request.

5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture.

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Continued maintenance by the Borrower of a macro-economic
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program, as
determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Completion of all actions (including offering for sale) neces-
sary towards the transfer to private persons of title to the capital
presently owned by, or on behalf of, the Borrower in at least ninety-
five (95) Government Corporations the aggregate assets of which shall
represent at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the value, in Fiscal
Year 1985, of the Borrower’s assets of Government Corporations which
have been approved for privatization under the Program.

3.    The Borrower has taken all action necessary, including the sub-
mission to its Congress of required legislation, to eliminate all
quantitative restrictions on imports of all goods, except for those
goods which have been previously specified in agreement with the
Bank.

4.    The Borrower has proposed for adoption by its Congress draft
legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the change in
the method of computation of import tariffs and related structures
to one based on fair market valuation, or such other valuation
acceptable to the Bank.

5.    The Borrower has adopted the Energy Sector Plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, and has implemented all energy related price reform
measures as scheduled in said Plan.

6.    The Borrower has proposed for adoption by its Congress draft
legislation, satisfactory to the Bank and certified as priority
legislation by the Borrower’s Executive, reforming the Borrower’s
laws on land and maritime transport.

7.    The Central Bank has: (a) adopted policy resolutions, satis-
factory to the Bank, enabling the Central Bank to achieve and main-
tain a positive level of net foreign assets; and (b) the Central Bank
has achieved a positive level of net foreign assets.

8.   The Borrower has proposed for adoption by its Congress measures
(including budgetary action), satisfactory to the Bank, providing for
the unencumbered payment to, or transfer of debt from, the Central
Bank in the amount of at least Peso 9.99 billion.