World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3425 EC

   (First Social Development Project -- Education and Training)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated March 9, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3425 EC

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project (in cooperation with
the Borrower’s Ministerio de Educacion, Cultura, Deportes y
Recreacion (Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports and Recreation,
hereinafter referred to as MEC)) and Parts B.3 through B.7 of the
Project will be carried out by Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion
Profesional (Ecuadoran Vocational Training Service, hereinafter
referred to as SECAP) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SECAP proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and SECAP;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "CENAPIA" means Centro Nacional de Pequena Industria y
Artesania (National Center for Crafts and Small Industry) affiliated
with the Borrower’s Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio, Integracion
y Pesca (Ministry of Industries, Commerce, Integration and Fishing);

      (b)   "CENDES" means Centro de Desarrollo Industrial
(Industrial Development Center) affiliated with the Borrower’s
Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio, Integracion y Pesca (Ministry of
Industries, Commerce, Integration and Fishing);

      (c)   "CONADE" means the Borrower’s Consejo Nacional de
Desarrollo (National Development Council);

      (d)   "DINACAPED" means the Direccion Nacional de Capacitacion
y Perfeccionamiento Docente e Investigacion Pedagogica (National
Directorate of Teacher Training and Pedagogical Studies) of MEC;

      (e)   "DINEIB" means the Direccion Nacional de Educacion
Intercultural Bilingce (National Directorate of Intercultural
Bilingual Education) of MEC;

      (f)   "DINEPP" means the Direccion Nacional de Educacion
Popular y Permanente (National Directorate of Adult Education) of
MEC;

      (g)   "DINERE" means the Direccion Nacional de Educacion
Regular y Especial (National Directorate of Regular and Special
Education) of MEC;

      (h)   "DNPE" means the Direccion Nacional de Planeamiento
Educativo (National Directorate of Education Planning) of MEC;

      (i)   "Editorial Council" means the council referred to in
Section 3.08 of this Agreement;

      (j)   "Hub School" means the public Primary School (as
hereinafter defined), established pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, which serves as the administrative center for the
surrounding network of other public Primary Schools that are part of
its School Network (as hereinafter defined);
      (k)   "INEM" means Instituto Nacional de Empleo (National
Employment Institute) affiliated with the Borrower’s Ministerio de
Trabajo y Recursos Humanos (Ministry of Labor and Human Resources);

(l)   "IPED" means a MEC Instituto Pedagogico (teacher
training college), of which there are various distributed throughout
the provinces of Ecuador;

      (m)   "MINFIN" means the Borrower’s Ministerio de Finanzas y
Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit);

      (n)   "PCU(M)" means MEC’s Project coordinating unit as
referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement;

      (o)   "PCU(S)" means SECAP’s Project coordinating unit as
referred to in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement;

      (p)   "Primary School" means a school where any of the
following grades are taught to children: pre-school and grades 1
through 9 (thus a primary education, for purposes of this Project,
covers pre-school and grades 1 through 9);

      (q)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated February 23, 1990, April 5, 1990 and
August 2, 1991 between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (r)   "Provincial Directorates" means MEC’s delegations
(Direcciones Educativas Provinciales) in the provinces of Ecuador;

      (s)   "School Network" means a Centro Educativo Matriz (Matrix
Education Center, consisting of a Hub School and surrounding network
of public Primary Schools served by the Hub School), as described in
MEC’s Acuerdo (Resolution) no. 3695, dated August 20, 1990;

      (t)   "SNALME" means MEC’s Servicio Nacional de Abastecimiento
de Libros y Materiales Educativos (National Service for Books and
Educational Materials Supply);

      (u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (v)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Borrower and SECAP referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty-nine million dollars ($89,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco
Central de Ecuador on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance

of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable

semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Minister of Education of the Borrower, with
regard to Loan proceeds for Part A of the Project, and the Director
General of SECAP, with regard to Loan proceeds for Part B of the
Project, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any actions required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:

      (a)   shall carry out Part A of the Project, and cooperate
with SECAP in carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, through
MEC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and educational practices, and the
Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project
and for the proper functioning of every School Network (including,
inter alia, the funds referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement
and those required to meet all operation and maintenance costs not
financed by the proceeds of the Loan);
      (b)   shall cause SECAP to carry out Part B of the Project (in
cooperation with MEC with regard to Parts B.1 and B.2 of the
Project) in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and vocational training practices, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable SECAP to carry out such Parts of the Project
(including, inter alia, those funds required to meet all operation
and maintenance costs not financed by the proceeds of the Loan), and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with the carrying out by SECAP of such Parts of the
Project;

      (c)   shall make proceeds of the Loan available to SECAP for
Part B of the Project under a subsidiary agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SECAP, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank; and

      (d)   shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the
Project shall be carried out by SECAP (except that MEC shall
cooperate with SECAP in carrying out such obligations with regard to
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project).

Section 3.04. The Borrower, through MEC, shall carry out the
plan of action regarding the measures to be taken for establishing
and making operational the relationship between School Networks and
Provincial Directorates with regard to the administration of
education activities. Such plan of action is contained within the
studies letter referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MEC, shall, for each
fiscal year during Project implementation, provide each School
Network with funds, in an amount satisfactory to the Bank, and shall
allow each School Network to administer such funds as each School
Network deems necessary in order to meet nonsalary expenses incurred
by the School Network (including expenses incurred for the
maintenance of public Primary School facilities within the School
Network).

      Section 3.06. With regard to Part A.1 of the Project, 55
public Primary Schools shall be converted by the Borrower, through
MEC, into Hub Schools in three phases. In the first phase, 20 Hub
Schools shall be established in low-income areas in the cities of
Quito and Guayaquil. In the second phase, 23 Hub Schools shall be
established in low-income urban areas in the provinces of Guayas,
Pichincha, Esmeraldas, El Oro and Los Rios. In the third phase, 12
Hub Schools shall be established in low-income urban areas in the
provinces of Carchi, Chimborazo, Loja, Manabi and Canar. The precise
location of each Hub School shall be chosen according to criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.07. With regard to Part A.2 of the Project, in-
service training shall take place for each School Network for a
period of two years after the establishment of its Hub School. Such
training shall be provided by instructors from DINACAPED and, to the
extent such instructors are available, from the IPED in the School
Network’s province. The School Networks shall provide logistical
support and allow their facilities to be used for such training.

      Section 3.08. Part A.5 of the Project shall be carried out as
follows by the Borrower, through MEC, under the supervision of the
Editorial Council:

      (a)   membership in the Editorial Council shall at all times
during Project execution consist of one representative of the
private publishing sector, plus eight representatives from MEC (one
representative from the Minister of Education and Culture himself,
one from the PCU(M), one from DINACAPED, one from DINEIB, one from
DNPE, one from DINERE, one from Unidad Ejecutora Educacion para el
Desarrollo Proyectos MEC-BID (Executing Unit for Education for
Development Projects MEC - Interamerican Development Bank) and one
from SNALME), and the Editorial Council shall, in addition to
supervising the carrying out of Part A.5 of the Project, carry out
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank the textbook activity
rationalization plan, also satisfactory to the Bank, which plan
shall be submitted, no later than the annual review to be held in
1993 and referred to in Section 3.13 of this Agreement, to the Bank
by the Borrower through PCU(M);

      (b)   MEC shall contract consultants to: (i) design the
textbooks, workbooks and teachers’ guides, such materials to be
based on an updating of the Abramos Surcos textbooks, currently in
use in rural parts of Ecuador, so as to adapt them for use in urban
areas as well and remove any gender, ethnic, social or other  bias
or stereotyping from their content; and (ii) provide technical
assistance to the Editorial Council to assist in carrying out the
textbook activity rationalization plan referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section;

      (c)   MEC shall contract for the printing of the textbooks,
workbooks and teachers’ guides; and

      (d)   MEC, through SNALME, shall: (i) distribute Abramos
Surcos materials to the School Networks until the materials printed
pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section are ready; (ii) thereafter

distribute the materials printed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
Section to all students served by School Networks, collecting from
each student an annual textbook rental fee equal to 20% of each
textbook’s design, production and distribution cost; (iii) sell the
remainder of the materials printed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
Section to other students at a price equal to 15% above the
materials’ design, production and distribution cost; and (iv) place
the proceeds collected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of
this paragraph in an editorial fund, administer such proceeds in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and apply them towards the
republication of the materials designed pursuant to this Section as
needed to serve School Networks, replace worn rented copies and
maintain commercial sales.

      Section 3.09. With regard to Part A.6 of the Project, the
Borrower, through MEC, shall:

      (a)   administer the testing program through a Council of
Directors composed of the Minister of Education and Culture, the
Director of DNPE’s Department of Evaluation and the coordinator of
the PCU(M); and

      (b)   implement the testing program in four phases, beginning
on a pilot basis in 1992 with language and mathematics tests of
approximately 15,000 students in the provinces of Guayas, Pichincha
and El Oro, then in 1993 and 1994 extending the student and geo-
graphical coverage and expanding the tests to include science and
social science, then in 1996 implementing the program on a nation-
wide scale by testing each of approximately 121,150 students in
grades 2, 6 and 9 on the four topics of language, mathematics,
science and social science, and maintaining the full testing program
on a nation-wide scale continuously thereafter.

      Section 3.10. The Borrower, through MEC, shall carry out the
studies referred to in Part A.9 of the Project and employ consul-
tants according to the timetable contained in the studies letter
from the Borrower and SECAP to the Bank of even date herewith.

      Section 3.11. The Borrower, through MEC, shall enter into, and
carry out the terms of, an operational agreement with SECAP,
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth how MEC and SECAP shall
cooperate in carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project. Such
agreement shall specify, inter alia, that:

      (a)   the courses under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project shall
be offered by MEC’s DINEPP, using facilities available at MEC adult
education centers and technical colleges as well as SECAP vocational
training centers;

      (b)   the preparation of teaching materials for Part B.2 of
the Project, and the training of instructors who shall give the
courses under Part B.2 of the Project, shall be the joint responsi-
bility of MEC and SECAP, with MEC identifying poverty groups and
their educational needs so as to target such courses effectively;

      (c)   the courses under Part B.2 of the Project shall be
offered in MEC technical colleges, MEC arts and crafts centers,  MEC
special education institutes, Hub Schools and SECAP vocational
training centers; and

      (d)   SECAP shall annually during Project implementation pay
MEC a fee equal to 100% of the costs incurred by MEC in providing
its services under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project.

Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such operational
agreement with SECAP or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.12. The Borrower shall coordinate implementation of
Part A of the Project (as well as its cooperation with SECAP under
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project) through the PCU(M), to be
maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Bank throughout Project
execution and to include: (a) a coordinator who shall be assisted by

an education management specialist; (b) a general education
specialist who shall be assisted by a consultant involved in the
development of School Networks; (c) an administrator who shall be
assisted by an audit and financial control specialist; (d) an
architect or other facilities specialist who shall be assisted by a
procurement and contracting specialist; and (e) a lawyer who shall
serve the PCU(M) on a part-time basis. In staffing the PCU(M), the
Borrower shall comply with the timetable referred to in Section 6.01
(c) (ii) of this Agreement. At least quarterly during Project exe-
cution, the PCU(M) coordinator shall meet with the PCU(S) coordi-
nator and MINFIN’s Undersecretary of Public Credit to discuss the
status of Project implementation and exchange observations derived
from their Project execution experience.

      Section 3.13. (a) At the end of every six-month period during
Project implementation, beginning with the period concluding on June
30, 1992, the Borrower, through PCU(M), shall present to the Bank a
progress report on Part A of the Project based on the performance
indicators referred to in the indicators letter from the Borrower
and SECAP to the Bank of even date herewith. Such reports shall be
consolidated into an annual report covering the preceding calendar
year, to be presented to the Bank no later than March 31 of each
year during Project implementation (beginning March 31, 1993).

      (b)   The Borrower, through MEC and MINFIN and together with
SECAP, shall participate in annual reviews of Project implementation
to be held in conjunction with the Bank in the third quarter of each
calendar year during Project implementation, beginning in 1992. Each
such review shall, based on the reports referred to in Section 3.13
(a) of this Agreement and in Section 2.11 (a) of the Project
Agreement, examine the status of Project implementation and conclude
with the finalization of annual plans of action satisfactory to the
Bank (one for Part A of the Project and the other for Part B of the
Project), including specific goals and projections for Project
implementation for the immediately upcoming twelve months. Each such
annual plan of action for Part A of the Project shall be carried out
by the Borrower during the twelve months immediately subsequent to
its finalization.

      (c)   Each annual review referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section shall also examine MEC’s budget. Each annual plan of action
for Part A of the Project referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section shall include a commitment by the Borrower to present to the
Congress of Ecuador a MEC budget, for the immediately upcoming
fiscal year, designed to cover the Borrower’s obligations under
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement. Each annual plan of action for
Part B of the Project referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
shall include a commitment by the Borrower to present to the
Congress of Ecuador a SECAP budget, for the immediately upcoming
fiscal year, designed to cover the Borrower’s obligations under
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement. The Borrower shall, throughout
the course of Project implementation, present to the Congress of
Ecuador for each fiscal year (beginning for fiscal year 1993) a
budget wherein the total amount proposed for MEC (for purposes of
public primary education in pre-school and grades 1 through 9)
represents a greater share of the total amount proposed for MEC (for
all purposes) than was the case in the budget approved by the
Congress of Ecuador for fiscal year 1991.

      Section 3.14. As part of the annual reports referred to in
Section 3.13 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through PCU(M),
shall provide the Bank with the following statistical data, compiled
and presented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the
immediately preceding completed school year: (a) the rate of public
Primary School student grade repetition; (b) the rate of public
Primary School student dropouts; and (c) the public school
participation rate of Ecuador’s primary education age population.
The Borrower, through MEC, shall exert its best efforts to bring the
repetition and dropout rates referred to herein down to 15% and 3%,
respectively, by the school year ending in 1998, and to bring the
participation rate referred to herein up to 95% by the school year
ending in 1998.

Section 3.15. During the annual reviews scheduled to be held
in 1995 and 1997, special emphasis shall be placed on examining the
effectiveness of Part A of the Project in contributing towards the
achievement of the goals specified in Section 3.14 of this
Agreement, taking into account for purposes of such examination,
inter alia, the results of the studies undertaken pursuant to Part
A.9 of the Project. The annual plans of action finalized as part of
the annual reviews held in 1995 and 1997 shall include measures to
be taken by the Borrower as a result of such examination.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project. As part of such
obligation, the Borrower, through MEC, shall maintain such records
and accounts with respect to Part A of the Project, as well as to
the editorial fund referred to in Section 3.08 (d) of this Agreement
and to the funds expended or received by MEC with regard to Parts
B.1 and B.2 of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, and those for the
                   Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
                   in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   private auditors acceptable to the Bank acting
                   under terms of reference satisfactory to the
                   Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                   shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of

expen-diture submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower, through MEC, shall enter into
contracts with consultants to prepare an accounting system for MEC’s
operations, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall use such system,
beginning no later than June 30, 1992, as part of its compliance
with, and without in any way limiting, its obligation to maintain
records and accounts under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   SECAP shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SECAP will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;

      (c)   the charter, regulations or other documents whereby
SECAP was created or is governed shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of SECAP to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;

      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SECAP or for the suspension of its operations; and

      (e)   the Congress of Ecuador shall have failed to approve any
of the MEC or SECAP budgets presented by the Borrower in compliance
with Section 3.13 of this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have been fully executed;

      (b)   that the operational agreement referred to in Section
3.11 of this Agreement and in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement
shall have been fully executed;

      (c)   that: (i) the PCU(M) shall have been established and is
operational and staffed with at least the coordinator, general
education specialist, administrator and architect/facilities
specialist referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement; and (ii)
a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for filling the other

positions in the PCU(M) listed in Section 3.12 of this Agreement,
shall have been presented to the Bank;
      (d)   that: (i) the PCU(S) shall have been established and is
operational and staffed with at least the coordinator and the
administrator/accountant referred to in Section 2.10 of the Project
Agreement; and (ii) a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for
filling the other positions in the PCU(S) listed in Section 2.10 of
the Project Agreement, shall have been presented to the Bank;

      (e)   that SECAP shall have presented to the Bank a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, for entering into the agreements
referred to in Section 2.14 of the Project Agreement by the end of
1995; and

      (f)   that the Borrower and SECAP shall have each entered into
a contract (in a manner consistent with Section II of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement) with a procurement agent or agents to assist in the
procurement of goods and works and contracting of consultants
required for the Project.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   on behalf of the Borrower, that the Subsidiary Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with its terms;

      (b)   on behalf of SECAP, that the Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, SECAP and is legally binding upon SECAP in accordance
with its terms; and

      (c)   on behalf of SECAP, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, SECAP and is legally binding upon SECAP in accordance with its
terms.

      Section 6.03. The date May 11, 1992 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
            Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
            Quito, Ecuador

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINFINANZAS               22358 MINFIN-ED
                   Quito, Ecuador

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433

United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                         By /s/ Raul Vallejo
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works               23,000,000        70%

(2) Vehicles, equipment                         100% of foreign
    and furniture (ex-                          expenditures,
    cluding teaching                            100% of local
    materials)                                  expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally

    (a)  under Part A of       8,500,000
         the Project

    (b)  under Part B of       4,000,000
         the Project

(3) Teaching materials                          100%

    (a)  under Part A of       6,300,000
         the Project

    (b)  under Part B of       1,400,000

the Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Technical assistance,                       100%
    studies and audits

    (a)  under Part A of      11,000,000
         the Project

    (b)  under Part B of       6,500,000
         the Project

(5) Training                                    100%

    (a)  under Part A of       4,500,000
         the Project

    (b)  under Part B of       1,800,000
         the Project

(6) Incremental
    operation and
    maintenance costs

    (a)  under Part A of
         the Project:

         (i) office and        1,200,000        100% until
             school supplies                    withdrawals
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount equiva-
                                                lent to
                                                $500,000; then
                                                60% until such
                                                withdrawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $1,100,000; and
                                                30% thereafter

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

        (ii) other            4,800,000         100% until
                                                withdrawals
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount equiva-
                                                lent to
                                                $1,800,000; then
                                                60% until such
                                                withdrawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $4,200,000; and
                                                30% thereafter

  (b)  under Part B of

the Project:

       (i) office      300,000                  100% until
           supplies                             withdrawals
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount equiva-
                                                lent to
                                                $100,000; then
                                                60% until such
                                                withdrawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $200,000; and
                                                30% thereafter

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

        (ii) other            5,700,000         100% until
                                                withdrawals
                                                under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate
                                                amount equiva-
                                                lent to
                                                $2,200,000; then
                                                60% until such
                                                withdrawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $5,100,000; and
                                                30% thereafter

(7) Refunding of Project   640,000 Amounts due
    Preparation Advance                         pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02
                                                (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(8) Unallocated     9,360,000
                   __________

       TOTAL       89,000,000
                   ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000 for expenditures incurred by SECAP and not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,800,000 for expenditures incurred by MEC, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after July 13, 1991.

3.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "incremental operation and maintenance costs"
means operation and maintenance costs (except as pertain to training
as described in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph) which would not
have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia,
costs with respect to: (i) maintenance of School Network facilities
and maintenance and operation of schools which have been expanded or
rehabilitated into Hub Schools under Part A.1 of the Project; (ii)
maintenance and operation of vehicles and equipment procured under

the Project; (iii) salaries paid to MEC and SECAP staff hired for
purposes of the Project; (iv) remuneration for MEC and SECAP staff,
not hired for purposes of the Project, for work done for the Project
which is not covered by their salaries; and (v) consumable office
and school supplies;

      (b)   the term "teaching materials" means items which directly
serve a pedagogical purpose, such as maps, posters and books
(including the printing and distribution of books, but not technical
assistance provided to write or design such books);

      (c)   the term "training" covers costs for: (i) scholarships
for trainees; (ii) trainer/instructor fees for purposes of Parts
A.2, A.7, A.8 and B.5 (b) of the Project; and (iii) consumable
training supplies procured for purposes of Parts A.2, A.7, A.8 and
B.5 (b) of the Project;

      (d)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (e)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the quality
and delivery of primary education and vocational training services
targeted to the poor in Ecuador; and (b) achieve institutional
strengthening of MEC and SECAP.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Primary Education

1.    Expansion or rehabilitation of 55 public Primary Schools in
low-income urban areas, and furnishing, maintenance and operation of
each such school as a Hub School, as well as maintenance of the
facilities of the School Networks.

2.    Provision of in-service training, covering topics such as
improved use of class time and improved use of textbooks, to all
teachers who work in the School Networks, together with provision of
training to the instructors who will present such in-service
training so that they may do so in the most effective manner.

3.    Operation of pre-school classes in each School Network.

4.    Screening of all students served by the School Networks to
detect the presence of learning disabilities, and provision of
special education services, headquartered at each Hub School, to
those students which have such disabilities.

5.    Design, production and distribution of Primary School
textbooks, workbooks and teachers’ guides and other printed teaching
materials for use in public Primary Schools throughout Ecuador.

6.    Design and implementation of a systematic and standardized
nation-wide testing program to assess academic achievement (but not
to decide promotion) of second, sixth and ninth grade public Primary
School students on a periodic basis.

7.    Decentralization of selected MEC administrative activities so
that such activities are assumed by the School Networks and by the
Provincial Directorates in each of the provinces where a School

Network is located, together with provision of training to approxi-
mately 635 staff members (110 from School Networks, 480 from
Provincial Directorates and 45 from MEC headquarters) with respect
to administration under the new decentralized structure.

8.    Provision of training and technical assistance to approxi-
mately 255 staff members (110 from School Networks, 105 from
Provincial Directorates and 40 from MINFIN, CONADE and MEC
headquarters) with respect to improved budgeting and resource
allocation techniques for public Primary Schools, together with
provision of computer equipment and software to facilitate the
budgeting process.

9.    Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a study, based on
data collected pursuant to Part A.6 of the Project, to:

            (i)    assess the quality of public Primary School
                   education in Ecuador;

           (ii)    determine which types of public Primary School
                   students are at greatest risk of repeating
                   grades or dropping out of school and how
                   educational inputs can affect that risk; and

          (iii)    compare the academic achievement of public
                   Primary School students who have participated in
                   pre-school programs with the achievement of
                   those who have not participated in such
                   programs;

      (b)   a study on the demographics of indigenous children of
Primary School age and on the social, cultural, linguistic and other
problems they could face as Primary School students; (c) studies on
the effectiveness of the pre-school and special education activities
carried out under Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project and on Primary
School teacher use of classroom time; (d) a study to provide the
analytical framework for planned national policy deliberations on
reform of Ecuador’s secondary school sector; and (e) a study to
provide the analytical framework for planned national policy
deliberations on reform of Ecuador’s post-secondary school sector.

Part B:     Adult Education and Vocational Training

1.    Provision of the equivalent of a complete primary education to
approximately 113,500 adults who have already attained literacy but
have not received a full primary education.
2.    Provision of basic vocational skills training in arts and
crafts, agriculture, industry, construction, small business manage-
ment and assorted trades and services to approximately 200,000
students (plus approximately 25,500 disabled students) through
short-duration courses.

3.    Provision, as part of SECAP’s existing Capacitacion Popular
(Popular Training) program, of more advanced basic vocational skills
training through short-duration courses in arts and crafts, agri-
culture, industry, construction, small business management and
assorted trades and services to 180,000 students (including students
who have successfully completed the training referred to in Part B.2
of the Project), together with the provision to SECAP of 150 modular
mobile workshops, 30 vehicles to transport such workshops and 10
community instruction/production centers to complement SECAP’s
existing facilities for offering such courses.

4.    Support by SECAP (in cooperation with CENDES and CENAPIA), on
a pilot basis, for small businesses with export potential in the
clothing, leather garment, furniture and wooden parts sectors
through: (a) identification of production, design and quality
control problems of such businesses, together with provision of
training and technical assistance to such businesses to solve such
problems through improved productivity and competitiveness; (b)
establishment of three technological information and consulting
centers to serve as the delivery points for such training and

technical assistance and to provide access to international data
bases containing information on opportunities and techniques
relating to such sectors; and (c) encouragement of enhanced export
marketing and economies of scale in such sectors.

5.    (a) Production of training manuals for use by SECAP staff; and
(b) provision of training to approximately 2,160 SECAP instructors
in more effective technical skills teaching techniques and course
design.

6.    Updating of existing curricula offered by SECAP and designing
of 19 new courses (in areas such as small-scale mining, tanning,
industrial electronics, data processing and baking) to be offered by
SECAP, together with provision and installation of equipment for
SECAP, as well as provision of spare parts for existing SECAP
equipment and of teaching materials for SECAP (including equipment
for an audio-visual materials reproduction unit in SECAP and for the
new courses to be offered by SECAP).

7.    Institutional strengthening of SECAP through: (a) development
and use of an information system for SECAP (in cooperation with
INEM) whereby living standards, labor market conditions, SECAP
course impact in the markets and the employment histories of SECAP
graduates are monitored and analyzed so as to allow SECAP to plan
and respond effectively to the demands of the labor market; (b)
development and use of internal manuals to guide, inter alia,
SECAP’s infrastructure use, cost accounting and fund management; (c)
creation of a data base, accessible nationwide through one national
and four regional information centers, containing all available
vocational training documentation in Ecuador; and (d) consultation
with the private sector in SECAP decision-making.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

May 15, 1997                               1,625,000
November 15, 1997                          1,685,000
May 15, 1998                               1,750,000
November 15, 1998                          1,820,000
May 15, 1999                               1,890,000
November 15, 1999                          1,960,000
May 15, 2000                               2,040,000
November 15, 2000                          2,115,000
May 15, 2001                               2,200,000
November 15, 2001                          2,285,000
May 15, 2002                               2,370,000
November 15, 2002                          2,465,000
May 15, 2003                               2,560,000
November 15, 2003                          2,655,000
May 15, 2004                               2,760,000
November 15, 2004                          2,865,000
May 15, 2005                               2,975,000
November 15, 2005                          3,090,000
May 15, 2006                               3,210,000
November 15, 2006                          3,335,000
May 15, 2007                               3,465,000
November 15, 2007                          3,600,000
May 15, 2008                               3,740,000
November 15, 2008                          3,880,000
May 15, 2009                               4,035,000
November 15, 2009                          4,190,000
May 15, 2010                               4,350,000
November 15, 2010                          4,520,000
May 15, 2011                               4,695,000

November 15, 2011                          4,870,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                         SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods or works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
more than $1,500,000 in the case of works and $200,000 in the case
of goods.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Section, goods manufactured in Ecuador
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the

basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   works for Hub School expansion and rehabilitation
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or less per contract
or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$32,500,000;

      (b)   printing of teaching materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,500,000; and

      (c)   goods (excluding computer hardware and software and
vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,000,000.

2.    The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank:

      (a)   works for Hub School or School Network maintenance
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract or
per bid package, up to an aggregate amount of $7,000,000;

      (b)   printing of teaching materials (excluding textbooks)
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract or
per bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000;
and

      (c)   goods (including motorcycles but excluding other
vehicles and computer hardware and software) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,300,000. School Networks,
without the assistance of the procurement agents referred to in
Section 6.01 (f) of this Agreement, shall be the sole procurers of
school and office supplies for their use (up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,000,000) which are included within the $10,300,000
equivalent covered by this subparagraph.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part
A.1 of this Section; (ii) each contract for works, which is either
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $500,000 or is part of
a bid package estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$500,000, procured under Part C.1 of this Section; and (iii) the
first contract for goods, the first contract for printing, the first
contract for Hub School civil works and the first contract for civil
works for other schools in the School Networks, each procured under
Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Part E:     Use of Standard Documents

      All procurement of goods and works to which international or
local competitive bidding applies shall be carried out using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower and SECAP in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and SECAP shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (the "Consultants Guidelines") published by the
Bank in August 1981.

Section III.  Special Provisions

A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:

1.    Bids must be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any
alternative proposals, if they have been requested or permitted,
shall be read aloud when opened.

2.    Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local
representative for purposes of submitting bids, but may be required
to have such a representative upon entering into contracts which
they have been awarded.

3.    Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the Borrower or
SECAP without recertification by any Ecuadoran bank or other
Ecuadoran person or entity.

4.    Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the Borrower or SECAP must be admissible
without recertification or other participation by any Ecuadoran bank
or other Ecuadoran person or entity.

5.    Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent
purchasers from obtaining other performance warranties from
suppliers.

B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods,
printing and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this
Schedule:

1.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on
all contracts.

2.    The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which
shall be at least thirty days from the date of the last advertise-
ment of the invitation to bid.
3.    The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three

days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.

4.    Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.

C.    In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:

1.    Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection process,
but may be required to be so registered, at the time of contracting,
if the Borrower and the Bank so agree.

2.    Foreign consultants must not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a
joint venture arrangement where: (a) a sufficient number of capable
domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign
consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (b) the contribution of
either party to the joint venture arrangement will not be con-
strained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and
(c) the foreign consultant is not required to associate itself with
any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants.

3.    Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition
to provide services in Ecuador under contracts to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum
capital different from that required for Ecuadoran firms.

4.    Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, providing
services under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants’
Association that are different from those required for Ecuadoran
consultants.

Section IV.  Internal Approvals

      The approval by the Contralor General del Estado (National
Controller General) and the Procurador General del Estado (National
Attorney General) referred to in Article 18 of Ley No. 95, of August
2, 1990 (Ley de Contratacion Publica), shall be limited to the
standard bidding documents referred to in Section I, Part E of this
Schedule.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to para- graph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the

Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.