World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3463 MOR

                (Second Structural Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 30, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3463 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1992 between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) The Bank has received a letter dated April 8,
1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and request-
ing assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution; and

      WHEREAS (B) On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide such assis-
tance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two (2) tranches as
hereinafter provided.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports that may be financed out of
      the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
      Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."; and

      (d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
      to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.".

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Bank Al Maghrib" means the Central Bank of the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Laws
(Dahir) No. 1
233 dated June 30, 1959 and No. 1
258 dated
December 30, 1961, as amended from time to time;

      (b)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year; and

      (c)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986).

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred seventy-five million dollars
($275,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or

such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

     (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
            second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of

the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) Bank Al Maghrib is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts Bank Al Maghrib with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan, and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applica-
tions shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to
apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000) equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                  Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                  Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan

Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audits referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such Fiscal Year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINISTERE FINANCES        36147,
                  Rabat                     31936

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                        By /s/ Mohamed Berrada
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and
                                  associated materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-pre-
                                  cious stones, unworked or worked

                                  GroupSubgroupDescription of Items

   718             718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                  parts thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                  for nuclear reactors

   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals

(except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971               --           Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of fifty-five million dollars ($55,000,000)
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after July 2, 1991;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;

      (g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to eighty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($82,500,000)
for petroleum products and foodstuffs, provided that the aggregate
amount of withdrawals in respect of petroleum products shall not
exceed the equivalent of twenty-seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($27,500,000).

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than five million dollars
($5,000,000) equivalent may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of one hundred thirty-eight million dollars
($138,000,000), unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (b)
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
taken.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      January 15, 1998                      5,015,000
      July 15, 1998                         5,210,000
      January 15, 1999                      5,410,000
      July 15, 1999                         5,620,000
      January 15, 2000                      5,835,000

July 15, 2000                         6,060,000
      January 15, 2001                      6,295,000
      July 15, 2001                         6,540,000
      January 15, 2002                      6,790,000
      July 15, 2002                         7,055,000
      January 15, 2003                      7,325,000
      July 15, 2003                         7,610,000
      January 15, 2004                      7,905,000
      July 15, 2004                         8,210,000
      January 15, 2005                      8,530,000
      July 15, 2005                         8,855,000
      January 15, 2006                      9,200,000
      July 15, 2006                         9,555,000
      January 15, 2007                      9,925,000
      July 15, 2007                        10,310,000
      January 15, 2008                     10,705,000
      July 15, 2008                        11,120,000
      January 15, 2009                     11,550,000
      July 15, 2009                        11,995,000
      January 15, 2010                     12,460,000
      July 15, 2010                        12,940,000
      January 15, 2011                     13,440,000
      July 15, 2011                        13,960,000
      January 15, 2012                     14,500,000
      July 15, 2012                        15,075,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions at Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000) or more each shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (b)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

      (c)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                   quired."

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than five million dollars ($5,000,000) shall be
awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two (2) countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two (2)
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other

information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

                          SCHEDULE 4

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Macroeconomic Framework

      Continued maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program, as
determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank.

2.    Trade

      (a)   Reduction of the maximum import duty applicable to every
item of goods (except for certain agricultural goods selected on the
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank) imported into the
Borrower’s territory to a level which shall not exceed thirty-five
percent (35%) of the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such item of
goods.

      (b)   Elimination of all import licensing requirements
applicable to all goods other than certain goods selected by the
Borrower and acceptable to the Bank.

      (c)   Elimination of all reference prices in respect of all
industrial goods except for certain industrial goods representing
10% of the total value of domestic industrial production during the
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1992, as calculated on the basis
of guidelines acceptable to the Bank. For purposes of this Section,
the term "reference price" means the minimum value of an item of
goods on the basis of which import duties and taxes applicable to
such items are calculated.

3.    Investments

      (a)   Carrying out of a public investment program for the
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1992, and adoption by the
national legislative assembly of the Borrower of a public investment
program for the Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1993, both of
which are acceptable to the Bank and are designed to strengthen the
social sectors and provide the infrastructure required for private
sector development, as determined on the basis of investment targets
acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)    Presentation to the Council of Government of the
Borrower, of a draft law, which the Bank agrees is designed to
provide a rational and efficient system of investment incentives.

4.    Social Sectors Development Strategy

      (a)   Adoption and application of policies and procedures
designed to enable the Borrower to monitor and evaluate, on the
basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank, the development of its
social sectors; and (b) development, on the basis of such monitoring
and evaluation activities, of a strategy which the Borrower and the
Bank agree are appropriate for the improvement of the quality of
life of the Borrower’s low-income households.