World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3458 MAS

                (Sugar Energy Development Project)

                              between

                             MAURITIUS

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 1, 1992
ˇ                                              LOAN NUMBER 3458 MAS

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1992, between MAURITIUS (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Bank, acting
as Trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), a grant (the
GET Grant), in an amount of SDR 2,310,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
GET Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
Bank, acting as Trustee of the GET; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."
ˇ      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "CEB" means the Borrower's Central Electricity Board;

      (b)   "BEDP" means the Borrower's Bagasse Energy Development
Program;

      (c)   "MSA" means the Mauritius Sugar Authority; and

      (d)   "UStA" means the Union St. Aubin Factory or such
corporate body which may be incorporated for the purposes of
carrying out Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
ˇ      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) Bank of Mauritius is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts Bank of Mauritius with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$25,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and energy sector practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall by July 1, 1992, implement a
revised system for the bagasse transfer payment, satisfactory to the
Bank.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank shall by June 30,
1994, jointly carry out a mid-term review of the Project to evaluate
the effectiveness of the implementation of the Project relative to
its objectives. Prior to such review, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report on the basis of a terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. After such review, the Borrower shall make
such revisions to project implementation procedures as may be
appropriate to achieve the objectives of the Project, having due
regard to the recommendations emanating from the said review.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,

orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ˇ                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:

      (a)   Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:

            (i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                   or

           (ii)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GET
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (b)   CEB has executed contracts with UStA for the bulk
purchase of electricity and the sale of coal, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   the Borrower has submitted to the Bank documentation
demonstrating the technical, financial, economic and environmental
viability of the investments under Part A.1 of the Project;

      (d)   the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence that the
financing package for Part A.1 of the Project has been secured; and

      (e)   the Borrower has appointed the BEDP Coordinator within

MSA, with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis
            Mauritius

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINFIN                    4249 EXTERN IW
                   Port Louis
ˇ      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         MAURITIUS

                         By /s/ Chitmansing Jesseramsing
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
ˇ                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Eligible Imports          13,500,000      100% of foreign
      under Part A.3                            expenditures
      of the Project

(2)   Unallocated                1,500,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                     15,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "Eligible Imports" means the list of imported
goods agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, as such list may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

ˇ                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
implementing the BEDP by: (i) expanding electricity generation from
bagasse; (ii) promoting the efficient use of biomass fuels from the
sugar industry for energy production; and (iii) strengthening the
management and coordination of BEDP.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Expansion of Electricity Generation

1.    Construction of a 22 MW bagasse and coal fired power plant at
the Union St. Aubin Sugar Factory in southern Mauritius.

2.    Acquisition of transport equipment to haul bagasse to the
power plant.

3.    Provision of part of the requisite foreign exchange for the
importation of machinery and equipment required to improve
efficiency in steam generation and use at sugar factories,
including, improvements or replacement of steam generating units,
turbo-generator sets, bagasse handling systems, bagasse drying
equipment, juice heaters, evaporators and vapor bleeding, vacuum
pans and mill electrification.

Part B:     Promotion of Efficient Use of Biomass Fuels

1.    Development and local adaptation of technologies for transport
and handling of bagasse, including experimental trials.

2.    Initiation of a program of trials and experiments leading to
possible future use of cane tops, leaves and trash as fuel for power
generation.

3.    Training program for technical personnel in bagasse and coal
power plant operations.
ˇPart C:     Institutional Support for BEDP

1.    Strengthening of MSA in its role as Secretariat for the BEDP
Management Committee, including the establishment of a BEDP
Coordination Unit within MSA.

2.    Establishment of an Environmental Monitoring Cell for the
Sugar Industry in MSA to ensure that environmental mitigation plans
are implemented, and to establish an environmental monitoring system
covering the sugar industry.

3.    Training of CEB staff in boiler management and coal handling,
and strengthening CEB's laboratory for fuel quality analysis.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

ˇ                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

      beginning December 15, 1997
      through December 15, 2008              625,000

And on June 15, 2009                         625,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
ˇ                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)

applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity
ˇ                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
procurement of Eligible Imports, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more shall be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    With respect to the procurement of Eligible Imports under this
Part A:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."
ˇ      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures

Contracts for Eligible Imports estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 each shall be awarded on the
basis of normal industrial and commercial procurement procedures for
such imported goods which shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of
comparison of three quotations from suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with
procedure acceptable to the Bank. Proprietary items may be procured
under direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for Eligible Imports, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

ˇ                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall maintain the BEDP Management Committee with
representation from the Borrower and the sugar industry to undertake
further detailed planning of program implementation, ensure that the
Borrower's policy directives related to BEDP are followed, and
effectively bring about integration of the Borrower's policies
affecting the sugar and energy sectors. The Committee shall be
chaired by the Financial Secretary and shall report to the Minister
of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources.

2.    The BEDP Management Committee shall, inter alia, be
responsible for: (a) planning and monitoring the implementation of
BEDP and its individual program and project components, and
assessing the adequacy of policy measures and advise on policy
revisions; (b) managing the technology and staff development
activities included in BEDP; (c) providing technical support for
appraisal of investment subprojects; (d) assisting CEB and
individual power producers on matters relating to energy
contracting; (e) disseminating information and organization of
exchanges of experiences related to the implementation of BEDP; and
(f) taking part in negotiations with international lending
institutions about the use of funds in support of BEDP.

3.    The BEDP Management Committee shall have overall
responsibility of overseeing Project implementation. The BEDP
Management Committee shall implement this responsibility through MSA
which has been appointed as the BEDP Secretariat. A BEDP
Coordination Unit shall be established in MSA. MSA shall, at all
times during Project implementation, ensure that suitable technical
staff from the sugar technology, agronomy and finance departments
are seconded on appropriate terms to the BEDP Coordination Unit. In
addition, administrative arrangements shall be maintained to ensure
that individual key technical staff from the Borrower's other
Ministries and agencies are available through secondment to support
the BEDP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    UStA shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A.1
and A.2 of the Project, in close coordination with the BEDP
Management Committee. A Power Plant Implementation Unit shall be
established within UStA responsible, inter alia, for (a) planning,
engineering and procurement administration relating to the power

plant program; (b) supervision of the implementation of the program
within budgeted cost and time schedules; (c) preparation of annual
work programs and budgets; and (d) progress reporting and
coordination with the BEDP Management Committee and financing
agencies. CEB shall be responsible for operating and maintaining the
power sub-station required to connect UStA’s power plant to CEB’s
main grid.

5.    The BEDP Management Committee in overseeing the implementation
of Part A.3 of the Project, shall each year, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comment, an assessment of the economic
and financial viability of investments for the improvement of mill
efficiency to save bagasse on the basis of terms of reference agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank. Such assessment shall, inter
alia, take into account the implementation of energy pricing and
bagasse pricing arrangements, and relevant developments in the
Borrower’s financial sector. Following the Bank’s review of such
assessment, appropriate revisions may be made to implementation
arrangements related to Part A.3 of the Project as may be required
to achieve the objectives of the Project.

6.    The Environment Monitoring Cell, to be established as part of
the BEDP Coordination Unit, shall be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of an environmental mitigation plan and for a program
to monitor environmental discharges to the air, water and land by
the sugar industry in accordance with the terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    The Rose Belle Sugar Estate shall carry out the Bagasse
Transport Study and a Study team, led by the Head of MSA’s Sugar
Technology Department, shall carry out the Biomass Energy Technology
Study, both under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The
Borrower shall furnish the draft reports of the respective studies
to the Bank for its review by January 31, 1993, and January 31,
1994.

8.    For the purposes of assisting in the implementation of Part
A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, on the basis of arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, assign to MSA the responsibility for
supervising procurement of Eligible Imports.

9.    The Management Committee shall, by May 30 each year, furnish
to the Bank Annual Work Programs and Progress Reports satisfactory
to the Bank which shall, inter alia, include (a) detailed training
programs for UStA and CEB; (b) a staff support plan for the BEDP
Coordination Unit; and (c) the proposed utilization of counterpart
funds generated by the proceeds of the Loan. The first such Annual
Work Program shall be furnished to the Bank not later than September
30, 1992.