World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3472 TU

                  (Agricultural Research Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 12, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3472 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an

integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "MARA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs, or any successor thereto;

      (b)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry, or any
successor thereto;

      (c)   "GDAR" means MARA’s General Directorate of Agricultural
Research;

      (d)   "GDRS" means MARA’s General Directorate of Rural
Services;

      (e)   "APK" means MOF’s Research, Planning and Coordination
Bureau; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty-five million dollars ($55,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency satisfactory to
the Bank a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of

Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate

administrative, financial, economic and agricultural and forestry
research practices and in accordance with environmental standards
acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of

expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. In order to ensure the achievement of the
objectives of the Project and to make full economic and productive
use of the investments included in the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   (i) prepare, under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by October 31, 1994, two master
plans, with indicative budgets, one for the carrying out of
agricultural research and one for the carrying out of forestry
research, and for the carrying out of programs for capital and
operating investments and for improving research staff career
structure, training and performance incentives, over the ten years
period following such date, (ii) finalize said plans after taking
into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon, and (iii) maintain
arrangements agreed with the Bank, for the updating of said plans,
by December 31 of each year, and for the efficient carrying out
thereof during each such year, including for ensuring annual
allocations of funds therefore adequate for the carrying out
thereof; and

      (b)   provide adequate budgetary resources each year for the
proper operation and maintenance of the facilities provided under
the Project.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik Hazine Ve
              Disticaret Mustesarligi
            Inonu Bulvari
            Emek/Ankara
            Republic of Turkey

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MALIYE-HAZINE             821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                            821-42689 (ANK-TR)

                                          Rapifax:

                                            90
2128737

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                        By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Civil works                 7,300,000      45%

(2)  Goods                      15,300,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 90%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally

(3)  Training                   13,500,000      100%

(4)  Consultants’                6,800,000      100%
     services

(5)  Research grants             4,000,000      100%

(6)  Incremental                 2,600,000      50%
     operating costs

(7)  Unallocated                 5,500,000
                                __________

     TOTAL                      55,000,000

==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "Incremental Operating Cost" means the
expenditures made on account of the operation and maintenance of the
vehicles and research equipment procured out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s
agricultural and forestry research services.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Carrying out of programs to strengthen institutional
capabilities and operations of MARA and MOF and their research
institutes to facilitate improved planning, administration and
coverage of agricultural and forestry research, including:

(1)   development and implementation by MARA and MOF of suitable (a)
research planning, budgeting and monitoring systems, and (b)
staffing plans and staff career structures, staff training and
performance incentives policies and procedures;

(2)   provision and initial operation by MARA of new regional
laboratory facilities for testing to determine pesticide and hormone
residues in food products, and upgrading of existing laboratories
for the conduct of such tests and for the testing and diagnosis of
livestock diseases;

(3)   construction, equipping and initial operation by MARA of a
field crop research complex;

(4)   completion of establishment and initial operation by MARA of
a nationwide agricultural research information system to improve the
planning and management of agricultural research; and

(5)   establishment and initial operation by MARA of an agricultural
economics research institute for the carrying out of economic
research and training to increase the contribution of the
agricultural sector in the economy.

Part B:

(1)   Carrying out of priority research programs:

      (a)   by MARA, to develop appropriate technologies for
application in the Borrower’s less developed eastern and
southeastern regions to increase crop production, improve livestock
management and upgrade irrigation and drainage practices;

(b)   by MOF, to develop appropriate technologies for
application in the Borrower’s less developed eastern and
southeastern regions to promote the development of agroforestry and
silvipastoral systems; and

      (c)   by MARA, to develop appropriate technologies for
application throughout the Borrower’s territory to improve farming
systems, erosion control and soil conservation, soil fertility and
integrated pest management and the systems and procedures for
monitoring and reducing pesticide and hormone residues in food
products.

(2)   Carrying out of a program to increase the relevancy of
agricultural and forestry research to farmers through the
establishment and maintenance of effective linkages between MARA’s
and MOF’s research institutes and the farming communities.

(3)   Development and implementation of a program to promote
agricultural and forestry research by individual researchers through
the provision of research grants to such researchers for research
contributing to agricultural and forestry development.

Part C:

      Provision of technical assistance, staff training, including
fellowship training, scientific books and journals, research
facilities, housing facilities, vehicles and equipment and materials
to be utilized in the carrying out of the Project.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 1 and July 1

      beginning January 1, 1998
      through January 1, 2009              2,290,000

on July 1, 2009                            2,330,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for (a) works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more, and (b) goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Works, other than for the construction of the research complex
under Part A (3) of the Project, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for scientific books and journals may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out

of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                         SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

(1)   Overall coordination and monitoring of Project execution shall
be carried out by the Borrower through a steering committee to be
maintained with functions agreed with the Bank. The said committee
shall be chaired by the Undersecretary of MARA and comprise
representatives of MARA’s and MOF’s General Directorates.

(2)   The Borrower shall: (a) employ or cause to be employed, by
April 30, 1993, consultants, with qualifications and experience and
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, to assist in the
carrying out of the Project; (b) ensure that the staff training,
including fellowship training, under the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with programs and criteria for the selection of
candidates thereunder agreed with the Bank; and (c) ensure that the
research grants and awards under Part B (3) of the Project shall be
made under arrangements agreed with the Bank.

(3)   In order to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of
the Project, the Borrower shall prepare, through a joint committee
of MARA and MOF and under terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, by April 30, 1995 and by October 31, 1997,
effectiveness assessment reports on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
respective date of each such report and the measures recommended and
the resources required to ensure the proper carrying out of the
Project during the period after such date. The Borrower shall afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review with the Borrower the
conclusions and recommendations of each such report, and,
thereafter, take all such measures as, in the opinion of the Bank,
shall be required to ensure efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof.

(4)   MARA’s activities under the Project will be carried out
through GDAR, GDRS and MARA’s research institutes, and MOF’s
activities under the Project will be carried out through APK and
MOF’s research institutes. For this purpose and for the purpose of
facilitating the efficient carrying out by GDAR and APK and the said

research institutes of their other operations, the Borrower shall
ensure that the staff of each GDAR and APK and such research
institutes shall be strengthened in accordance with a time bound
staffing plan satisfactory to the Bank.

(5)   In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the proper planning, budgeting and implementation of
agricultural and forestry research, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire, by April 30, 1993, rights in respect of an
additional 1,000 ha of land suitable for range and pasture trials
and demonstrations, to be utilized in the carrying out of the
research programs to improve livestock management under Part B (1)
(a) of the Project;

      (b)   take all action required on its part to ensure the
completion of the establishment of the agricultural economics
research institute referred to in Part A (5) of the Project, by
October 31, 1993;

      (c)   organize by April 30, 1993, and thereafter maintain a
farming systems research team, at four of MARA’s research institutes
involved in the carrying out of the research programs for improving
farming systems under Part B (1) (c) of the Project, with staff and
other resources and terms of reference agreed with the Bank;

      (d)   maintain arrangements, agreed with the Bank, for the
carrying out of agricultural research programs by MARA under Part B
(1) (a) and (c) of the Project through research program working
groups maintained with staff and other resources and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank;

      (e)   (i) maintain a multi-disciplinary team consisting of at
least two qualified research scientists and one qualified extension
official to undertake, under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, a review, every two years, of the operations of each of MARA’s
research institutes and prepare, on the basis of such review, a
report recommending the measures required to ensure the efficient
discharge by such institute of its functions, and (ii) implement all
such measures as are recommended in such report; and

      (f)   until the programs for improving research staff career
structure, training and performance incentives shall have been
prepared and implemented pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of this
Agreement, maintain a research staff career structure which the Bank
agrees covers adequately research staff training and promotion
opportunities, the minimum requirements for key staff positions and
security of tenure for staff with satisfactory performance.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.