World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3499 POL

                          Loan Agreement

                         (Housing Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 21, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3499 POL

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated March 2,
1992, from the Borrower transmitting the "Housing Finance Policy",
describing the objectives, policies and actions designed to achieve
the restructuring of its housing finance system;

      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (C)   the Borrower has contracted from other sources of
finance grants to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and such other sources and is in the process of
arranging for further financing; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOSEC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Spatial Economy
and Construction, or any successor thereof;

      (b)   "HFPO" means the Housing Finance Project Office under
the authority of MOSEC, or any successor thereof;

      (c)   "Bud Bank S.A." means the Bank for Housing Construction
Development, a joint stock company, established pursuant to decision
No. 26 of the National Bank of Poland of June 18, 1990 and the
shareholders resolution on August 6, 1990;

      (d)   "Mortgage Fund" means the fund, to be established within
Bud Bank S.A. pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement for the
purpose of providing a stable source of long-term funds for housing
investments;

      (e)   "Shareholders’ Resolution" means the resolution taken by
the shareholders of Bud Bank S.A. in accordance with the provisions
of Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Operations Manual" means the operational manual to be
adopted by Bud Bank S.A. pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement, specifying the procedures to be followed and the
eligibility criteria to be applied for Sub-loans under Part A of the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank in accordance with paragraph B (c) of Schedule
6 to this Agreement;

      (g)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in Sections 3.01 (b) and 6.01 (b) to be entered into by the Borrower
and Bud Bank S.A.;

      (h)   "Construction Financing Agreement" means any agreement
entered into by Bud Bank S.A. and a Participating Bank in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph B (d) of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement for the purpose of financing construction Sub-loans under
Part A.1 of the Project;

      (i)   "Mortgage Financing Agreement" means any agreement
entered into between Bud Bank S.A. and a Participating Bank in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph B (d) of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement for the purpose of financing Mortgage Sub-loans under
Part A.2 of the project;

      (j)   "Financing Agreement" means, collectively, Construction
Financing Agreements and Mortgage Financing Agreements;

      (k)   "Construction Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to
be made in part out of the proceeds of the Loan by a Participating
Bank to a developer and/or a household for a Construction Sub-
project under Part A.1 of the Project;

      (l)   "Mortgage Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made in part out of the proceeds of the Loan by a Participating Bank

to a household for a Mortgage Sub-project under Part A.2 of the
Project;

      (m)   "Sub-loan" means, collectively, Construction Sub-loans
and Mortgage Sub-loans;

      (n)   "Construction Sub-project" means a specific project to
be carried out by a developer or a household under Part A.1 of the
Project utilizing the proceeds of a Construction Sub-loan;

      (o)   "Mortgage Sub-project" means a specific construction
and/or purchase by an individual household under Part A.2 of the
Project utilizing the proceeds of a Mortgage Sub-loan;

      (p)   "Sub-project" means, collectively, Construction Sub-
projects and Mortgage Sub-projects;

      (q)   "Beneficiary" means: (i) a developer and/or a household
to whom a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a
Construction Sub-loan under Part A.1 of the Project; or (ii) an
individual household to which a Participating Bank proposes to make
or has made a Mortgage Sub-loan under Part A.2 of the Project;

      (r)   "Participating Bank" means any banking institution with
which the Mortgage Fund has entered into a Construction Financing
Agreement and/or a Mortgage Financing Agreement;

      (s)   "Zlotys" means Zlotys in the currency of the Borrower;
and

      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by the Mortgage Fund on account of withdrawals made by
Beneficiaries under Sub-loans for Sub-projects to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services or of dwellings provided under
such Sub-projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
the National Bank of Poland on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of

Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall (i) carry out Part B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with

appropriate practices; (ii) cause the Mortgage Fund to carry out
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices;
and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of sub-paragraph
(a) (iii) of this Section, the Borrower shall make available to Bud
Bank S.A. the proceeds of the Loan under a Subsidiary Agreement to
be entered by the Borrower and Bud Bank S.A., whose terms and
conditions shall be satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.

      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause Bud Bank S.A. to
maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of Part A of the Project and of each Sub-project and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of Bud Bank S.A.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause Bud Bank S.A.:

            (i)    to have the records referred to in Section 4.01
                   of this Agreement, its accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and records
                   and accounts for the Special Account for each
                   fiscal year audited in accordance with sound
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   to furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                   said financial statements for such year as so
                   audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail,
                   including a statement on the compliance of Bud
                   Bank S.A. with the provisions of the
                   Shareholders’ Resolution, as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  to furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause Bud Bank S.A.:

            (i)    to maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

             (ii)  to retain, until at least one year after the

Bank has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;

            (iii)  to enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   to ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to
ensure that:

      (a)   public resources made available to banks to finance new
housing starts in Poland would be made available on terms and
conditions compatible with the terms set forth in Section I of the
Annex to Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   Bud Bank S.A. shall retain the net operating profit
generated through the operation of the Mortgage Fund for the benefit
of the Mortgage Fund after servicing and repaying of Bud Bank S.A.’s
debt to the Borrower relating to the activities of the Mortgage
Fund.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Bud Bank S.A. or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events specified in para-
graph (b) or (a) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall

occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the shareholders of Bud Bank S.A. have taken a
shareholders’ resolution (the Shareholders’ Resolution) restricting
its scope of business to the financing of construction and mortgage
loans in accordance with the Operational Manual under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, and the Borrower has made an
equity contribution equal to the equivalent of $11 million for the
purposes of the Mortgage Fund;

      (b)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed on behalf of
the Borrower and Bud Bank S.A. in conformity with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (c)   at least one Construction Financing Agreement and one
Mortgage Financing Agreement has been entered into on behalf of Bud
Bank S.A. and a Participating Bank acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly signed,
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Bud Bank S.A. and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Bud Bank S.A. in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Construction Financing Agreement and the
Mortgage Financing Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (c) have
been duly signed, authorized or ratified by Bud Bank S.A. and the
Participating Bank, and are legally binding upon Bud Bank S.A. and
the Participating Bank in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Spatial Economy and Construction
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

 For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Spatial
              Economy and Construction
            ulica Wspolna 2
            00-926 Warsaw

                                           Telex:

                                             3912 0948

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development

1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                         By /s/ Kazimierz Dziewanowski
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Construction             100,000,000        40% of amounts
    Sub-loans under                             paid by the
    Part A(1) of                                Participating
    the Project                                 Bank

(2) Mortgage                 100,000,000        40% of amounts
    Sub-loans under                             paid by the
    Part A(2) of                                Participating
    the Project                                 Bank

                             ___________

         TOTAL               200,000,000
                             ===========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no

withdrawals shall be made in respect of Sub-loans unless any such
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the criteria of procedures
and terms and conditions set forth in Section II of the Annex to
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
development of an efficient, market-based housing finance system in
accordance with the Housing Finance Policy.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A:

      Provision of Sub-loans by Participating Banks which satisfy
the requirements of Section II.A of the Annex to Schedule 6 to this
Agreement for:

(1)   Construction Sub-projects consisting of the preparation of
construction sites, the construction of single and multi-family
dwellings and the upgrading of residential dwellings by developers
and the construction of single family dwellings by individual
households; and

(2)   Mortgage Sub-projects consisting of the construction and/or
purchase of dwellings by individual households.

Part B:

      Carrying out of a program to upgrade institutional
capabilities in order to facilitate the efficient development,
financing and management of the housing sector, including the
provision of technical assistance, staff training and office
equipment to assist, inter alia:

(1)   HFPO in the reform of housing finance, the review and design
of legal and regulatory instruments to be prepared for Part A of the
Project, the monitoring of recent initiatives in the housing sector,
and the mobilization of private resources for housing;

(2)   MOSEC in the development of the regulatory framework
applicable to land and housing development, provision of assistance
to local authorities in the formulation and implementation of land
use and municipal regulations for housing development;

(3)   the Mortgage Fund in: (a) credit control, including loan
administration, accounting and reporting; (b) credit appraisal and
risk management; (c) design and management of information systems;
(d) training of employees of Participating Banks in the matters
referred to under (a) through (c) of this sub-component; and

(4)   local authorities in the management of public housing stock
and urban services, the revision of municipal regulations relating
to town planning, land development and construction permits and the
preparation of housing projects and credit applications.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1996                          4,600,000
June 15, 1997                              4,780,000
December 15, 1997                          4,965,000
June 15, 1998                              5,155,000
December 15, 1998                          5,355,000
June 15, 1999                              5,560,000
December 15, 1999                          5,775,000
June 15, 2000                              6,000,000
December 15, 2000                          6,230,000
June 15, 2001                              6,470,000
December 15, 2001                          6,720,000
June 15, 2002                              6,980,000
December 15, 2002                          7,250,000
June 15, 2003                              7,530,000
December 15, 2003                          7,820,000
June 15, 2004                              8,125,000
December 15, 2004                          8,440,000
June 15, 2005                              8,765,000
December 15, 2005                          9,105,000
June 15, 2006                              9,455,000
December 15, 2006                          9,820,000
June 15, 2007                             10,200,000
December 15, 2007                         10,595,000
June 15, 2008                             11,005,000
December 15, 2008                         11,430,000
June 15, 2009                             11,870,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Modifications of the General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

(1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect
to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the
Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph A.3 of
      Section II of the Annex to Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement,
      the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i)
      have received no applications or requests under subparagraphs
      (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
      applications or requests. The Bank may, by notice to the
      Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
      applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services provided under
the Sub-projects and to be financed by Sub-loans out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $11
million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special

Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.

A.    Overall Project Implementation

      Overall responsibility for the coordination and supervision of
the carrying out of the Project shall be assigned by the Borrower to
HFPO, and for this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure that:

      (a)   HFPO will be maintained with such staff, functions and
responsibilities as is acceptable to the Bank; and

      (b)   HFPO will carry out its responsibility under the Project
in accordance with the requirements and other details set forth in
the Operations Manual and will evaluate the impact of the Project in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.

B.    Part A of the Project

      The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to:

      (a)   cause Bud Bank S.A. to prepare and submit to the Bank a
report setting forth the financial projections for Mortgage Sub-
loans and Construction Sub-loans to be supported by the Mortgage
Fund during the following year, an estimate of the applicable unit
costs and the equity contribution needed from the Borrower by Bud
Bank S.A. to support the activities of the Mortgage Fund during the
following year by November 30 of each year and, thereafter, review
such items with the Bank and Bud Bank S.A.; with respect to the
equity contributions, the Borrower shall ensure that, on an annual
basis, such contributions match the disbursements of the Bank,
unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (b)   maintain Bud Bank S.A. with such staff, functions and
authorities as is acceptable to the Bank, and cause Bud Bank S.A. to
implement the Shareholders’ Resolution and to carry out its
responsibilities regarding the execution of Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Operations Manual;

      (c)   not amend the statutes of Bud Bank S.A., the Operations
Manual or the Shareholders’ Resolution without the prior approval by
the Bank;

      (d)   cause Bud Bank S.A. to enter into Financing Agreements
with Participating Banks, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
the provisions of Section I of the Annex to this Schedule;

      (e)   cause Bud Bank S.A. to undertake that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made for Sub-projects in
accordance with criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set
forth in Section II of the Annex to this Schedule; and

      (f)   cause Bud Bank S.A. to carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and banking practices.

                            ANNEX

Section I.  Terms and Conditions of Financing Agreements:

A.    Construction Financing Agreements:

      Currency: Zloty.

      Interest rate: Variable, set at the current Basic Interest
      Rate of the National Bank of Poland plus at least 300 basis
      points, or such other rate as the Borrower and the Bank shall
      agree.

      Final Maturity:  no more than three years.

      Repayment terms: At maturity in a single payment, including
      principal and interest.

      Accounts: The Participating Bank to keep separate accounts in
      respect of the activities to be financed under the
      Construction Financing Agreement.

      Audit: The accounts referred to above to be audited by
      independent auditors within 6 months after the end of the
      fiscal year of the Participating Bank and to be furnished to
      the Mortgage Fund.

      Onlending restrictions: Funds made available under
      Construction Financing Agreements shall finance no more than
      80% of Construction Sub-loans.

      Procurement Review: The first three awards of contracts
      following local competitive bidding procedures, referred to in
      Section II.D.1 (b) are subject to prior review by Bud Bank
      S.A. and the Bank.

      Final Maturity: no more than three years.

B.    Mortgage Financing Agreements:

      Currency: Zloty.

      Interest rates: Variable, set at the current Basic Interest
      Rate of the National Bank of Poland plus at least 300 basis
      points, or such other rate as the Borrower and the Bank shall
      agree.

      Repayment terms: To be repaid according to a schedule tied to
      payments received from the Beneficiary reflecting the cashflow
      of the underlying indexed mortgage.

      Accounts: The Participating Bank to keep separate accounts in
      respect of the activities to be financed under the Mortgage
      Financing Agreement.

      Audit: The accounts referred to above to be audited by
      independent auditors within 6 months after the end of the
      fiscal year of the Participating Bank and to be furnished to
      Bud Bank S.A..

      Collateral: Bud Bank S.A. to have a first lien on the mortgage
      for its share of the financing.

      Onlending Restrictions: Funds made available under Mortgage
      Financing Agreements shall finance no more than 80% of
      Mortgage Sub-loans.

Section II. Procedures, Criteria and Principal Terms of Sub-loans

A.    Procedures:

1.    Each Sub-loan for a Sub-project whose cost is estimated to
exceed the equivalent of $1 million shall be made only after and to
the extent the Sub-project shall have been approved by the Bank.

2.    Sub-loans other than those referred to in paragraph A.1 above

shall be approved by Bud Bank S.A. on the basis of a summary
description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including the
amortization schedule therefor.

3.    Applications pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.1 of
this Section shall be presented to the Bank and approvals pursuant
to paragraph A.2 of this Section shall be given on or before
December 31, 1996.

B.    Eligibility Criteria for Construction Sub-loans:

1.    Construction Sub-loans will be made for Construction Sub-
projects:

      (a)   which are conducive to individual mortgages being issued
to households; (b) only if at least sixty percent of the units in
each Construction Sub-project are presold to identified, eligible
buyers; (c) whose size should not exceed 100 dwelling units; (d)
whose construction started not before January 1, 1992 and is
expected to be completed within 24 months; (e) whose units shall be
built with valid building permits, comply with the building
requirements of the local authority, adequate environmental
sanitation, water supply and energy conservation standards and
provide access to public services and community facilities.

2.    Construction Sub-loans shall not exceed 75% of the estimated
total investment cost.

3.    Beneficiaries of Construction Sub-loans shall not includelarge publicly owned 
enterprises whose main activities do not
consist in housing construction.

C.    Eligibility Criteria for Mortgage Sub-projects.

1.    Mortgage Sub-loans shall be made only: (a) if the size of the
Mortgage Sub-loans does not exceed 36 times the monthly household
income, the monthly payment is not lower than 25 percent of the
Beneficiary’s household income and it is established that the
household can afford such monthly payment; (b) for dwellings whose
usable area does not exceed 100 m2 in multi story buildings and 150
m2 in single family dwellings; and (c) for the dwellings meeting the
criteria referred to under B.1 (e) above.

2.    Mortgage Sub-loans shall not refinance Construction Sub-loans
and their principal amount shall not exceed 75% of the sale price of
the dwelling.

3.    Mortgage Sub-loans shall not finance Mortgage Sub-projects
whose construction started before January 1, 1991.

4.    Sub-loans would be secured by mortgages providing for double
indexing: (a) annuity payments to be periodically adjusted to
reflect changes in the National Wage Index as published by the
Borrower’s Main Office of Statistics; and (b) the interest rate to
be variable, to be set and adjusted to provide a positive spread
over the respective rate applicable in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of this Annex.

D.    Principal Terms of Sub-loans:

1.    Each Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract with
the Beneficiary rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, where applicable: (i) that each
Beneficiary shall undertake to: (a) carry out and operate the Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, architectural, engineering, environ-
mental and urban planning standards, to provide promptly, as needed,
the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose,
and to maintain adequate records; (b) contract goods and works on
the basis of comparison of price quotations, provided, however, that
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $1 million or more
shall be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding

procedures acceptable to the Bank; (c) use such goods exclusively in
the carrying out of the Sub-project; (d) enable the Bank and the
Borrower to inspect the sites, works, and construction included in
the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (e) take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice; and (f) prepare and
promptly furnish to the Participating Bank for forwarding to the
Bank if so requested by the Bank, all such information as the Bank
or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
and (ii) provisions to ensure the right of the Participating Bank to
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower providing for the
Sub-loan.

2.    Further to the foregoing: (i) Mortgage Sub-loans would be
secured by mortgages providing for double indexing: (a) annuity
payments to be periodically adjusted to reflect changes in the
National Wage Index as published by the Borrower’s Main Office of
Statistics; and (b) the interest rate to be variable, to be set and
adjusted to provide for a positive spread over the respective rate
applicable in accordance with the provisions of Section I of this
Annex; and (ii) each Mortgage Sub-loan for a Mortgage Sub-project
shall be made on additional terms whereby the Participating Bank
shall obtain, by written contract with the beneficiary, undertakings
that the Beneficiary shall utilize the dwelling to be constructed or
purchased under the Mortgage Sub-project as its principal residence.