World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3482-IND

                (Fourth Telecommunications Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 8, 1992

                                              Loan Number 3482-IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   by agreement dated November 4, 1991 (the ABN AMRO BANK
Loan Agreement), the ABN AMRO BANK has agreed to make a loan (the
ABN AMRO BANK Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to one hundred fifty million Dutch Guilders
(NLG150,000,000) to assist in financing the rehabilitation of the
switching equipment under Part B (i) of the Project, and the
installation of the new switching equipment under Part B (ii) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the ABN AMRO BANK
Loan Agreement;

      (C)   by agreement dated March 22, 1991 (the Sumitomo
Corporation Suppliers Credit Agreement), the Sumitomo Corporation
has agreed to make a suppliers credit (the Sumitomo Corporation
Suppliers Credit) to the Borrower and PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia

in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to eight billion eight
hundred twenty nine million five hundred eighty four thousand six
hundred thirty two Yen (�8,829,584,632) to assist in financing the
rehabilitation of the switching equipment under Part B (i) of the
Project, and the installation of the new switching equipment under
Part B (ii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Sumitomo Corporation Suppliers Credit Agreement;

      (D)   by agreement dated March 13, 1992 (the KfW Loan
Agreement I), the Kreditanstalt f�r Weideraufbau (the KfW) has
agreed to make a loan (the KfW Loan I) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty five million Deutsche
Marks (DM45,000,000) to assist in financing the customer
distribution telecommunication network under Part B (ii) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the KfW Loan
Agreement I;

      (E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt
f�r Weideraufbau (the KfW) a loan in an amount of seventy six
million three hundred thousand Deutsche Marks (DM76,300,000) (the
KfW Loan II) to assist in financing the installation of the new
switching equipment under Part B (i) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement II) to
be entered into between the Borrower and the KfW;

      (F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Spain (Spain) a loan in an amount of fifty million dollars
($50,000,000) (the Spain Loan) to assist in financing the
rehabilitation of the switching equipment under Part B (i) of  the
Project, and the installation of the new switching equipment under
Part B (ii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the agreement (the Spain Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and Spain;

      (G)   by agreement dated December 3, 1991 (the US EXIMBANK
Loan Agreement I), the United States Export-Import Bank (the US
EXIMBANK) has agreed to make a loan (the US EXIMBANK Loan I) to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to fourteen
million eight hundred fifteen thousand six hundred ninety six
dollars ($14,815,696) to assist in financing the establishment of
the telecommunication management network system under Part B (v) of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the US EXIMBANK
Loan Agreement I;

      (H)   by agreement dated January 28, 1992 (the US EXIMBANK
Loan Agreement II), the United States Export-Import Bank (the US
EXIMBANK) has agreed to make a loan (the US EXIMBANK Loan II) to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixty
million dollars ($60,000,000) to assist in financing the
rehabilitation of the switching equipment under Part B (i) of the
Project, and the installation of the new switching equipment under
Part B (ii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the US EXIMBANK Loan Agreement II;

      (I)   by agreement dated Setember 25, 1991 (the OECF Loan
Agreement), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) has
agreed to make a loan (the OECF Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to three billion five hundred
fifty six million Yen (�3,556,000,000) to assist in financing Part
B (iii) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
OECF Loan Agreement;

      (J)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Credit
Lyonnais Bank a loan in an amount of one hundred two million French
Franks (FF102,000,000) (the Credit Lyonnais Loan) to assist in
financing the installation of the terrestrial microwave
telecommunication transmission facilities under Part B (iv) (a) of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement
(the Credit Lyonnais Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Credit Lyonnais Bank;

      (K)   by agreement dated November 30, 1991 (the French

Financial Protocol 1991-92), the Government of France has agreed to
make a loan (the French Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to two hundred one million seven hundred
thousand French Franks (FF201,700,000) to assist in financing the
installation of the terrestrial microwave telecommunication
transmission facilities under Parts B (iv) (b) and B (iv) (c) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the French
Financial Protocol 1991-92; and

      (L)   Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by PT.
Telekomunikasi Indonesia with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to TELKOM a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PT. Telekomunikasi
Indonesia;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "MTPT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism, Post
and Telecommunications;

      (b)   "PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia" and the acronym "TELKOM"
mean the limited liability company established and operating
pursuant to its Articles of Association dated September 24, 1991,
published in the State Gazette No. 5 dated January 17, 1992,
pursuant to the Borrower’s legislation, including the Borrower’s
Regulation No. 25 dated May 1, 1991;

      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TELKOM pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided to
TELKOM under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

(f)   "TELKOM’s Fiscal Years 1992-96 Investment Program" means
the investments to be undertaken by the TELKOM during its Fiscal
Years 1992-96, as the same may be revised pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred seventy five million dollars
($375,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as

provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part A of the Project, through MTPT,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Part of the Project; and (ii) cause TELKOM to
perform all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable TELKOM to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend to TELKOM out of the proceeds
of the Loan an amount equivalent to $373,000,000 under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TELKOM,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank which include the following principal terms and conditions: (i)
TELKOM shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a variable rate
per annum equal to the average six months interest rate per annum of
Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI) with a three-month
maturity plus one percent (1%). Such rate to be adjusted on January
1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on July 1, 1992, and calcula-
ted based on the average of SBI three-month maturity quotations dur-
ing the preceding six months; provided, however, that the interest
on the Subsidiary Loan for the period from the date of the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement through December 31, 1992, shall be determined

on the basis of the average of the per annum interest rate of SBI
three-month maturity quotations during the six months preceding July
1, 1992; provided further that on July 1 of each year, commencing on
July 1, 1993, the Borrower and the Bank shall review the above-
mentioned basis for determining that the on-lending interest rate
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement reflects the commercial cost of
borrowing to TELKOM; (ii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan shall be repaid over 20 years including five years grace; and
(iii) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. To assist MTPT in carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B and C of
the Project shall be carried out by TELKOM pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, prepare
and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a time-bound
action plan to address structural issues in the telecommunication
sector aimed, inter alia, at promoting competition and participation
of the private sector in the provision of telecommunication
services, and enhancing the regulatory framework, and, thereafter,
taking into account the Bank’s comments, implement such action plan.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by November 15, 1992,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its approval, a training
program for the MTPT staff, and thereafter, implement such training
program as approved by the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail

as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary, including annual reviews and adjustments of TELKOM’s
tariffs, if any, to enable TELKOM to comply its obligations under
Section 4.03 and paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to provide, or cause TELKOM to be provided, in a timely
manner, with funds, including foreign exchange, required to enable
TELKOM to carry out the TELKOM’s Fiscal Years 1992-96 Investment
Program.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   TELKOM shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that TELKOM will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Either the Articles of Association of TELKOM or the
Government Regulation No. 25 of 1991 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of TELKOM to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment

of TELKOM or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   TELKOM shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by TELKOM
or by others whereby any of the property of TELKOM shall or may be
distributed amongst its creditors.

      (f)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower or TELKOM to
                        withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant
                        made for the financing of the Project shall
                        have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower or TELKOM to perform any of its
                  respective obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                  to the Borrower or TELKOM from other sources on
                  terms and conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (g)   Either the KfW Loan Agreement II or the Spain Loan
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by January 31, 1993,
or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds to
assist in financing the rehabilitation of the switching equipment
under Part B (i) of the Project and the installation of the new
switching equipment under Part B (ii) of the Project, as the case
may be, are available to the Borrower or TELKOM from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.

      (h)   Credit Lyonnais Loan Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by June 30, 1993, or such later date as the Bank
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds to assist in financing the installation
of the terrestrial microwave telecommunication transmission
facilities under Part B (iv) (a) of the Project are available to the
Borrower or TELKOM from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(f) (ii) of such Section; and

      (d)   any event specified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of Section

5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso therein
set forth.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TELKOM.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TELKOM, and is legally binding upon TELKOM in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TELKOM and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and TELKOM in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINISTRY FINANCE           DJMLN JKT 45799
                  Jakarta                    DJMDN JKT 46415
                                            DEPKEU JKT 44319

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                  Cable address:          Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Outside Plant            289,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Telecommunications        27,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment, materials,                       expenditures,
    and software (excluding                     100% of local
    switching equipment)                        expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Computer System           20,200,000        100% of foreign
    (including service                          expenditures,
    arrangements)                               100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local

expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(4) Consultants’ services

    (a)  under Part A
         of the Project        2,000,000        100%

    (b)  under Parts B
         and C of the
         Project              14,000,000        100%

(5) Training:

    (a)  under Part A
         of the Project        1,000,000        100%

    (b)  under Parts B
         and C of the
         Project               2,500,000        100%

(6) Unallocated               18,500,000
                             ___________

    TOTAL                    375,000,000
                             ===========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "Outside Plant" means the supply, delivery,
installation and commissioning of local telecommunication telephone
network, pulse code modulation cable, optical fiber cable,
transmission equipment (inclusive of microwave equipment),
subscriber connections (inclusive of house-wiring and telephone
set), and associated infrastructure.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) improving performance of the telecommunications sector, inter
alia, by promoting a regulatory regime conducive to competition in
the provision of telecommunication services; and (b) meeting
increases in telecommunications service demand by enhancing the
quality of service, effective utilization of existing facilities,
increasing system efficiency, and modernizing and expanding the
telecommunications network.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Provision of technical assistance to MTPT to:

      (i)   strengthen its capacity to design, assess and implement
telecommunication sector policies;

(ii)   formulate measures to ensure competition and private
sector participation in domestic telecommunications services;

    (iii)   undertake a comprehensive analysis of domestic and
international telecommunication tariffs in Indonesia, and assess and
recommend a comprehensive mechanism for establishing such
telecommunication tariffs, with due regard, inter alia, to costs,
fund flows, demand, installed capacity and international
comparators; and

     (iv)   carry out staff training programs.

Part B:     Implementation of the TELKOM’s Fiscal Years 1992-96
Investment Program relating to Java, Bali, Nusatenggara, Kalimantan
and Sulawesi, including:

      (i)   rehabilitation of existing switching equipment, local
cable, customer distribution and interexchange telecommunication
networks, to improve operational efficiency and enhance traffic
handling capacity in the domestic telecommunication system;

     (ii)   installation of switching equipment, associated customer
distribution telecommunication network and customer terminal
equipment (including about 20,000 pay phones) to connect about
600,000 new customers;

    (iii)   installation of fiber optic cable and microwave
telecommunication transmission facilities to provide interexchange
junction facilities in the Jabotabek area;

     (iv)   installation of terrestrial microwave telecommunication
transmission facilities in (a) Java-Bali Phase I, (b) Bali-
Nusatenggara Phase I, (c) Trans-Sulawesi Phase II, and (d) Cross-
Kalimantan Phase II, all to improve long distance direct-dialling
service quality; and

      (v)   establishment of modern telecommunication network
management systems to improve supervision and traffic monitoring.

Part C:     Provision of technical assistance to enhance the
institutional capacity of TELKOM through, inter alia:

      (i)   upgrading its accounting and financial policies, systems
and procedures;

     (ii)   strengthening its capability in operations, project
design, engineering, implementation and supervision;

    (iii)   carrying out staff training programs, inter alia, in
management, professional human resource development and
telecommunications; and

     (iv)   develop and implement an operational and managerial
decentralization program.

                               * * *

         The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
         Date Payment Due                  (expressed in dollars)*

March 1, 1998                              6,840,000
September 1, 1998                          7,105,000
March 1, 1999                              7,375,000
September 1, 1999                          7,660,000
March 1, 2000                              7,960,000

September 1, 2000                          8,265,000
March 1, 2001                              8,585,000
September 1, 2001                          8,920,000
March 1, 2002                              9,260,000
September 1, 2002                          9,620,000
March 1, 2003                              9,990,000
September 1, 2003                         10,380,000
March 1, 2004                             10,780,000
September 1, 2004                         11,195,000
March 1, 2005                             11,630,000
September 1, 2005                         12,080,000
March 1, 2006                             12,545,000
September 1, 2006                         13,030,000
March 1, 2007                             13,535,000
September 1, 2007                         14,055,000
March 1, 2008                             14,600,000
September 1, 2008                         15,165,000
March 1, 2009                             15,750,000
September 1, 2009                         16,360,000
March 1, 2010                             16,990,000
September 1, 2010                         17,650,000
March 1, 2011                             18,330,000
September 1, 2011                         19,040,000
March 1, 2012                             19,775,000
September 1, 2012                         20,530,000

_____________________________

*        The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
         determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
         General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

         Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 4 (a)
and 5 (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allication.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.