World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3464 IND

            (Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 5, 1992

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3464 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1992 between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990,
between Japan and the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the
Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by
Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported
by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter
agreement;

      (C)   Japan has made available to the Borrower a grant (the
Japanese Grant) in an amount of � 607,500,000, out of said funds to
assist the Borrower in carrying out a portion of the technical
assistance under the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the agreement entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the Government

of Japan dated December 18, 1990, (hereinafter the "Japanese Grant
Agreement"); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on
April 1 and ending on March 31;

      (b)   "Project Area" means the Borrower’s provinces of Aceh,
West Sumatra, Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, Lampung, West Kalimantan,
North Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, South-East
Sulawesi and Maluku;

      (c)   "Prior Credits and Loans" means Credit 984-IND for the
Smallholder Rubber Development Project, dated April 3, 1980, Loan
1898-IND for the Smallholder Coconut Development Project, dated
April 6, 1981, and Loan 2494-IND for the Second Smallholder Rubber
Development Project, dated March 28, 1985;

      (d)   "PMUs" means the Project Management Units within the
Borrower’s Directorate General of Estates in the Borrower’s Ministry
of Agriculture, as established and maintained for purposes of the
Project, including the head office, provincial offices and site sub-
units;

      (e)   "Smallholder" means a farmer and his or her spouse,
participating under the Project, under Prior Credits and Loans, and
under the Borrower’s tree crop smallholders program in the Project
Area during FY 1988/1989 to FY 1991/1992;

      (f)   "Smallholder Cost Recovery Agreement" means an agreement
entered into between the Borrower and a Smallholder for the recovery
of credit granted to such Smallholder for the establishment and
maintenance of plantings; and

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,

various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty-seven million six hundred thousand dollars
($87,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and        (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined other-
                   wise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to

the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Borrower’s Directorate General of Estates in the Borrower’s Ministry
of Agriculture, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering,
environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit

by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
                   quested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

          (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

      (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
            any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing
            of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
            terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
            thereof, or

      (ii)  any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to
            the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

      (i)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
            ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
            perform any of its obligations under such agreement, and

      (ii)  adequate funds for the Project are available to the
            Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
            consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
            this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)

of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:           Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY         44319 DEPKEU-IA
                   Jakarta             45799 DJMLN-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                5,400,000      91%

(2)   Fertilizers for:                          91%

      (a) Part D.2 of            4,000,000
          the Project

      (b) Other Parts of        13,800,000
          the Project

(3)   Agricultural                              100% of foreign
      equipment (excluding                      expenditures and
      vehicles),                                91% of local
      agricultural inputs                       expenditures
      (excluding fertili-
      zers), and related
      transport services for:

      (a) Part D.2 of            8,000,000
          the Project

      (b) Other Parts of        26,100,000
          the Project

(4)   Services for land         2,200,000       91%
      titling

(5)   Office equipment         1,200,000        91%

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated      % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6)   Training for:                         100%

      (a) Farm families            350,000

      (b) Staff under              250,000
          Parts G.2, H.1
          and H.2 of
          the Project

(7)   Consultants’ services      2,800,000      100%
      and studies

(8)   PMU incremental            7,500,000      70% in FY 1992/93
      operating costs                           and FY 1993/94;
      under Parts A, B,                         50% in FY 1994/95
      D, G.1 and G.3 of                         and FY 1995/96;
      the Project                               and 20% in
                                                FY 1996/97

(9)   Unallocated               16,000,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                     87,600,000
                                ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "services for land titling" means surveying and
titling costs, including related travel expenses and accommodations;
and

      (d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means travel
expenses and allowances of PMU staff assigned to the Project, office
supplies, maintenance and operating costs of vehicles, and other
sundry office costs.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and

      (b)   Categories 2(a) and 3(a), until the Borrower has
established procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the recovery of
credit from Smallholders who have obtained credit under Loan 2494-
IND, Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project, and who will
obtain additional credit under Part D.2 of the Project.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to promote income growth and
employment opportunities in the Borrower’s Outer Islands.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     New Plantings of Rubber

1.    Land clearing and establishment of about 65,000 ha of rubber
for about 62,000 Smallholders in the provinces of West Sumatra,
Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, Lampung, West Kalimantan, and Maluku,
including, for the planting year, provision of cover crop seed,
rubber planting material, fertilizer, agrochemicals, and labor
payments; and, thereafter, provision of credit to such Smallholders
for maintenance costs, including fertilizer, agrochemicals and labor
payments.

2.    Establishment and maintenance of about 110 ha of budwood
gardens of the recommended clones.

3.    Establishment of about 715 ha of rootstock nurseries to supply
budded stumps for the planting program.

Part B:     New Plantings of Coconut

1.    Land clearing and establishment of about 35,000 ha of coconut
for about 31,000 Smallholders in the provinces of Riau, Lampung,
West Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, South-East
Sulawesi, and Maluku, including, for the planting year, provision of
cover crop seed, coconut planting material, fertilizer, agro-
chemicals, and labor payments; and, thereafter, provision of credit
to such Smallholders for maintenance costs, including fertilizer,
agrochemicals, on-farm harvesting and processing equipment, and

labor payments.

2.    Establishment of about 350 ha of nurseries to provide planting
material.

Part C:    Self-help Planting Scheme

1.    Provision of rubber seed for rootstock and budwood of the
recommended clones for the establishment of group nurseries to help
about 4,000 Smallholders plant about 4,000 ha of rubber in the
provinces of Jambi, Riau, South Sumatra and West Kalimantan.

2.    Provision of seednuts of the recommended varieties for the
establishment of group nurseries to help about 3,000 Smallholders
plant about 3,000 ha of coconut in the provinces of Maluku, Riau,
North Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi.

3.    Provision of extension advice and training by PMU staff to
about 7,000 Smallholders for the establishment and maintenance of
nurseries, field development, and organization of input supplies.

Part D:     Maintenance of Existing Plantings

1.    Provision of credit to about 8,000 Smallholders for main-
tenance costs, including fertilizer, agrochemicals and labor
payments, until commencement of tapping, and on-farm harvesting and
processing equipment, for about 9,000 ha of rubber in the provinces
of West Sumatra, Jambi, South Sumatra, and Lampung.

2.    Provision of credit to about 40,000 Smallholders for main-
tenance costs, including fertilizer, agrochemicals and labor
payments, until commencement of tapping, and on-farm harvesting and
processing equipment, for about 52,500 ha of rubber in the provinces
of Riau, Jambi, South Sumatra, and West Kalimantan.

3.    Provision of credit to about 13,000 Smallholders for main-
tenance costs, including fertilizer, agrochemicals and labor
payments, until maturity, and on-farm harvesting and processing
equipment, for about 13,000 ha of hybrid coconut plantings in the
provinces of Aceh, Riau, Lampung, West Kalimantan, North Sulawesi,
Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, South-East Sulawesi, and Maluku.

Part E:     Farm Access Roads

      Construction of about 1,250 kilometers of light farm roads or
tracks, 250 meters of small concrete bridges, 250 meters of small
wooden bridges, and 2,000 meters of culverts, to improve access to
and within the Project sites.

Part F:    Extension Services, Farmer Training, and Demonstration

1.    Provision of extension services to Smallholders in the Project
Area.

2.    Provision of extension aids (including audio-visual equip-
ment), operating expenditures, and training to extension staff of
PMUs in the Project Area.

3.    Training, on farmers’ fields, of about 10,000 farmer leaders
on field practices, tapping and harvesting, processing, and
marketing of rubber and coconut, including, where required, separate
courses for female family members.

4.    Establishment of demonstration plots on farmers’ fields by
extension staff, with the advice of technical PMU staff, to show the
effects of improved practices for rubber and coconut.

5.    Establishment of observation plots on farmers’ fields, Project
nursery areas, and land under the control of the Provincial Estate
Office (Dinas Perkebunan), to monitor the performance of clones and
the effect of different fertilizer regimes for specific locations.

Part G:     Project Management and Staff Development

1.    Administration of Smallholder Cost Recovery Agreements for
credits granted in the Project Area by the Borrower during FY
1988/1989 to FY 1991/1992 and for credits granted in the Project
Area under Prior Credits and Loans.

2.    Provision of training courses and on-the-job training for
about 950 extension workers and about 2,800 managerial and
administrative staff of the Borrower, assisting in the carrying out
of the Project.

3.    Upgrading of 16 Project Management Sub-Units to Units,
including construction of small offices, warehouses and houses for
staff.

4.    Acquisition of vehicles, radio communication equipment, micro-
computers, generators, office equipment, and training and extension
equipment for the PMUs.

Part H:    Tree Crop Program Support

1.    Provision of courses for the staff of the Borrower’s National
Land Agency (Badan Pertanahan Nasional, BPN) to train them in the
technical and procedural aspects of land titling activities under
the Project; and provision of courses to familiarize PMU staff with
the requirements of BPN.

2.    Provision of courses for the staff of the Borrower’s Financial
and Development Supervisory Board (Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan
Pembangunan, BPKP) to familiarize staff with the technical aspects
of the Project as they relate to audit duties of BPKP; and provision
of courses for PMU staff to familiarize them with the requirements
for preparation of accounts for audit.

3.    Provision of technical assistance to Units within the
Borrower’s Directorate General of Estates, to assist in the
management of the Borrower’s smallholder tree crop program.

4.    Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
annual inspections of the Borrower’s tree crop program activities,
including the activities under the Project.

5.    Carrying out of a study concerning a strategy for sustainable
financing and cost recovery for smallholder rubber and coconut
development.

6.    Carrying out of preparation activities, nursery development
and staff training for future smallholder projects.

7.    Carrying out of a study of existing coconut seed gardens to
ensure future availability of hybrid seed nuts.

8.    Carrying out of studies on tree crop agriculture, poverty-
related agriculture, the role of women in rural areas, environmental
aspects of agricultural and agro-industry activities, tree crop
financing and cost recovery, and related matters, as may be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

January 1, 1998                            1,595,000
July 1, 1998                               1,660,000

January 1, 1999                            1,725,000
July 1, 1999                               1,790,000
January 1, 2000                            1,860,000
July 1, 2000                               1,930,000
January 1, 2001                            2,005,000
July 1, 2001                               2,085,000
January 1, 2002                            2,165,000
July 1, 2002                               2,245,000
January 1, 2003                            2,335,000
July 1, 2003                               2,425,000
January 1, 2004                            2,520,000
July 1, 2004                               2,615,000
January 1, 2005                            2,715,000
July 1, 2005                               2,820,000
January 1, 2006                            2,930,000
July 1, 2006                               3,045,000
January 1, 2007                            3,160,000
July 1, 2007                               3,285,000
January 1, 2008                            3,410,000
July 1, 2008                               3,540,000
January 1, 2009                            3,680,000
July 1, 2009                               3,820,000
January 1, 2010                            3,970,000
July 1, 2010                               4,125,000
January 1, 2011                            4,280,000
July 1, 2011                               4,445,000
January 1, 2012                            4,620,000
July 1, 2012                               4,800,000

____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                    Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Goods (except vehicles) and transport services estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $33,600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Goods (except vehicles) and transport services estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Fertilizers may be procured by direct purchase from local
distributors in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

5.    Land titling services may be carried out by force account, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of

paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part H of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

2.    For the purposes of carrying out Part H.4 of the Project, the
Borrower shall invite proposals from Consultants not later than
September 30, 1992.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower
shall select farm families in accordance with the criteria, agreed
with the Bank, for participation in Parts A, B and C of the Project,
respectively, and shall keep acceptable records of the screening
process and of the selected participants.

2.    In carrying out Parts A.1, B.1, D, and G.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   provide credit to farm families and administer Small-
holder Cost Recovery Agreements in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   not later than December 31, 1992, establish standardized
amortization schedules for Smallholder Cost Recovery Agreements;
procedures for a simplified system of accounting for interest on
such credits; records of amounts outstanding and due under Small-
holder Cost Recovery Agreements; and modified procedures for cost
recovery under Prior Loans and Credits, acceptable to the Bank.

3.    In carrying out Part H.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a copy of the yearly inspection reports.

4.    In carrying out Part H.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
after consultation with the Bank and not later than March 31, 1993,
revise, if necessary, its system for sustainable financing and cost
recovery for future smallholder tree crop development, taking into
account the recommendations of the study.

5.    In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Directorate General of Estates to employ, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1992, an environmental specialist to assist in the implemen-
tation of the environmental management and monitoring of the Bor-
rower’s tree crop projects.

6.    The Borrower shall ensure that appropriate and adequate
numbers of vehicles will be made available in a timely manner for
the purposes of carrying out the Project.

7.    The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank, review from
time to time the level of cost recovery payments to be made by
Smallholders under the Project, taking into account the cash flows
of such Smallholders; and, thereafter, make any adjustments to such
payments as agreed with the Bank.

                          SCHEDULE 6

            Credit Recovery Administration Arrangements

1.    Credit shall be provided by the Borrower to the Smallholder
through the relevant PMU.

2.    Credit shall be used for maintenance costs during the immature
period of the trees.

3.    Credit shall consist of agro-inputs; payments for partial cost
of labor provided by family members, where justified; and on-farm
harvesting and processing equipment.

4.    Smallholders shall be required to enter into Smallholder Cost
Recovery Agreements with the Borrower, such Agreements to include
the following:

      (a)   payments for cost recovery shall be payable over a
maximum period of 12 years from the time the trees are mature;

      (b)   repayment obligations shall be established in a manner
to yield an effective annual interest rate of 21%. Provided,
however, that, if the Smallholder was a participant under Prior
Credits or Loans, the effective annual interest applicable shall be
the one established under such Prior Credits and Loans; and

      (c)   land titles shall be retained by the Borrower until the
obligations of the Smallholder under the Smallholder Cost Recovery
Agreement shall have been complied with.

5.    The PMU shall coordinate with farmer groups concerning the
collection of cost recovery payments from each Smallholder. The PMU
collecting staff shall issue a collective provisional receipt per
farmer group setting forth collections made from each Smallholder.
The PMU shall deposit the collections with a depository bank in
accordance with procedures specified by the Ministry of Finance.

6.    The staff of the PMU shall record Smallholder cost recovery
payments in the cost recovery accounts; and shall prepare a
collection report for submission to the PMU provincial office, the
PMU Jakarta Head Office, the Directorate General of Estates, and the
Ministry of Finance.

7.    Statistics of collection performance shall be maintained by
the PMU and shall be related to amounts currently due and overdue,
and shall include an analysis indicating the duration of defaults on
amounts due.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstandingspecial commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or

the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.