World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3476 TU

                    (Berke Hydropower Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 12, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3476 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Cukurova Elektrik
A.S. (CEAS) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CEAS the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and CEAS;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and CEAS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CEAS pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be made pursuant
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "CEAS Charter" means the Charter dated December 24,
1952, pursuant to which CEAS is established and operating, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (e)   "CEAS Concession Agreement" means the agreements between
CEAS and the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources,
dated August 26, 1953, and October 19, 1988, as said agreements are
amended to the date of this Agreement; and

      (f)   "Cofinanciers’ Agreements" means the agreements referred
to in WHEREAS (C) of the Preamble to the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred seventy million dollars ($270,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency, satisfactory to
the Bank, a special account in its Central Bank or in a commercial

bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the

preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. CEAS is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause CEAS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of CEAS therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CEAS to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
CEAS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and CEAS, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall include provisions
pursuant to which:

            (i)    CEAS shall repay to the Borrower the proceeds of
                   the Subsidiary Loan over a term of 17 years,
                   including a grace period of five years;

           (ii)    CEAS shall pay to the Borrower the equivalent in
                   the Borrower’s currency (determined as of the
                   respective dates of payment by the Borrower) of
                   the commitment charge and interest paid by the
                   Borrower pursuant to Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of
                   this Agreement, plus an additional charge
                   equivalent to 0.35% per annum on the principal
                   amount of the Subsidiary Loan outstanding from
                   time time, inclusive of any fronts and fee and
                   stamp duties payable by CEAS on account of the
                   Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan; and

          (iii)    the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan to
                   be repaid by CEAS shall be the equivalent in the
                   Borrower’s currency (determined as of the
                   respective dates of repayment by the Borrower)
                   of the equivalent in dollars (determined as of
                   the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account) of the value of the currency or
                   currencies so withdrawn from the Loan Account.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the

Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CEAS
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. As long as it exercises control over the setting
of electricity tariffs by CEAS, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that
CEAS’ tariffs are continued to be established in accordance with the

electricity pricing policy referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the
Guarantee Agreement (TEK Restructuring Project), dated September 13,
1991, between the Guarantor and the Bank; and (b) not amend such
policy unless the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed that such
amendment would not affect materially and adversely the financial
condition of CEAS or its ability to conduct its business.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   CEAS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CEAS will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)    The CEAS Charter or the CEAS Concession Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of CEAS to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CEAS or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   Any of the Cofinanciers’ Agreements, shall have failed
to become effective by June 30, 1993, or such later date as the Bank
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if CEAS establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for the Project are available to CEAS from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
CEAS under the Project Agreement.

      (f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of CEAS to withdraw the proceeds
                         of any of the Cofinanciers’ loans shall
                         have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if CEAS establishes to the satisfaction of
                   the Borrower and the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of CEAS
                   to perform any of its obligations under such
                   agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to CEAS from other sources
                   on terms and conditions consistent with the
                   obligations of CEAS under the Project Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section

5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CEAS.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CEAS, and is legally binding upon CEAS in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CEAS and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CEAS in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

 For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik Hazine Ve
              Disticaret Mustesarligi
            Inonu Bulvari
            Emek/Ankara
            Republic of Turkey

            Cable address:               Telex:

                   MALIYE-HAZINE           821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                           821-42689 (ANK-TR)

                                         Rapifax:

                                           90
2128737

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                         By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works             164,000,000       60%

(2)   Supply and               53,000,000
      installation of
      equipment and
      materials:

      (a) equipment                             100% of foreign
          and materials                         expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

      (b) installation and                      20%
          related services

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’                 500,000        100%
    services

(4) Training                     400,000        100% of foreign

expenditures

(5) Interest and              48,000,000        Amounts due pur-
    other charges                               suant to Section
    on the loan                                 2.02 (c) of this
    accrued on or                               Agreement
    before July 31,
    1997

(6) Unallocated                4,100,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               270,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000, may
be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (1)
accelerating the development of the Cukurova region’s hydropower
potential; (2) expanding the role of the private sector in power
generation; and (3) increasing CEAS’ generating capacity.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Construction at Berke on the Ceyhan River of, and provision of
equipment and materials for, hydroelectric generating facilities
with 510 MW capacity comprising:

      (1)   a thin concrete double curvature dam approximately 201 m
            in height with a storage reservoir capacity of about 427
            million m3 and associated structures, including an
            energy tunnel of 2.05 km length and an inside diameter
            of 9.30 m, and hydraulic equipment;

      (2)   an underground power station equipped with three
            187.5 MVA turbine generating units and associated
            electro-mechanical and switchboard equipment;

      (3)   transmission facilities consisting of 12 substations
            with installed capacity of 1,350 MVA and about 737 km of
            subtransmission lines; and

      (4)   load dispatch center in accordance with the detailed
            designs to be prepared under Part C (1) of the Project.

Part B:

(1)   Carrying out of programs for the mitigation of the
            adverse and the enhancement of the beneficial
            environmental impacts of the Project.

      (2)   Carrying out of a program for the resettlement or
            indemnification of about 144 people currently living in
            areas to be submerged under the Project.

Part C:

      (1)   Carrying out of a feasibility study of, and preparation
            of detailed designs for, a load dispatch center adequate
            to meet CEAS’ requirements through the year 2010.

      (2)   Carrying out of a program to train CEAS’ staff in load
            dispatch facilities, including the provision of
            specialized equipment therefor.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning February 1, 1998
      through August 1, 2009               11,250,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.