World Bank Document

CONFORMED

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3591 PNG

             (Population and Family Planning Project)

                              between

             THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated July 1st, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3591 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 1st, 1993, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE
OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $7,100,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADB;

      (C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) a grant (the
AIDAB Grant) in an amount not less than Australian dollars
A$15,200,000, to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in a Memorandum (the AIDAB Memorandum of
Understandings) to be entered into between the Borrower and AIDAB;

and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
                  arisen under which any further withdrawals
                  under the Loan would be inconsistent with
                  the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
                  the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "DFP" means the Borrower’s Department of Finance and
            Planning;

      (b)   "FP" means family planning;

      (c)   "Kina" means the currency of the Borrower;

      (d)   "MCH" means maternal and child health;

      (e)   "NDOH" means the Borrower’s National Department of
            Health;

      (f)   "NGO" means a non-government organization;

      (g)   "Population Planning Unit" means the Unit established
            within the Borrower’s Social Planning Division of the
            Department of Finance and Planning;

      (h)   "Project Implementation Unit" means the Unit established
            within the Borrower’s Department of Health;

      (i)   "STD" means sexually transmitted disease; and

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
            Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of six million nine hundred thousand dollars
($6,900,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in kina a special deposit account in Bank of Papua New
Guinea on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates

applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, public health, and family
planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower may provide for exemption of
payment of income and other taxes any duties levied under its laws
on consultants engaged under the Project, and taxes and duties
levied under its laws on the procurement of goods and services under
the Project; and in the absence of proving for such exemption, shall
finance these taxes and duties.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end

of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:

      (a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the ADB Loan or the AIDAB Grant shall
                  have been suspended, canceled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                  or

            (ii)  the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under the ADB Loan Agreement or the AIDAB Memorandum of
Understanding; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of subsection (b) of said Section.

ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;

      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
AIDAB Memorandum of Understanding have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;

      (c)   the Borrower has employed the staff and consultants
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and

      (d)   the Borrower has issued an administrative order to the
National Capital District and the Provinces of East New Britain,
Eastern Highlands, Morobe, Southern Highlands and Western Highlands
authorizing them to establish in their respective budgets a separate
budget line item for MCH/FP activities conducted under their
jurisdiction.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Department of Finance and Planning
            Vulupindi Haus
            Post Office Wards Strip
            Waigani, N.C.D.
            Papua New Guinea

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  TREASURER                     NE 22218
                  Boroko

      For the Bank:

           International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their

duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                        By /s/   Margaret Taylor
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/  Shahid Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Civil works under         3,100,000       90%
      Part A.1 and
      Part B.4 (a)
      of the Project

(2)   Equipment, furniture,       800,000       100% of foreign
      and vehicles under                        expenditures,
      Part A.2 and Part                         100% of local
      B.4 (a) of the                            expenditures
      Project                                   (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Contraceptives and        1,000,000       26%
      STD drugs under
      Part B.1 (b) of
      the Project

(4)   Consultants’              1,500,000       100%
      services, training,
      and studies under
      Part A.3 (d),
      Part A.5, Part B.4 (b),
      (c) and (d), and Part
      B.6 (c) of the Project

(5)   Unallocated                 500,000
                                _________

      TOTAL                     6,900,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement and no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures in the
Provinces of East New Britain, Eastern Highlands, Morobe, Southern
Highlands or Western Highlands, or in the National Capital District
until that Province or District has entered into an agreement with
the Borrower which is satisfactory to the Bank concerning
implementation of the Project in that Province or District.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to develop the Borrower’s
institutional capacity to foster and manage a comprehensive
population program, deliver effective family planning services,
generate a greater demand for family planning, and mobilize public
awareness and support for the program through governmental and non-
governmental channels.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Provincial Family Planning Service Delivery

1.    Construction, renovation and extension of MCH/FP clinics in
East New Britain, Eastern Highlands, Morobe, Southern Highlands,
Western Highlands and the National Capital District; construction of
office space for FP coordinators where required; and construction of
facilities for in-service training in the provinces of Morobe and
Southern Highlands.

2.    Provision of equipment for FP services in health facilities,
including surgical contraception equipment for hospitals, training
and office equipment, and provision of vehicles for the MCH/FP
outreach programs.

3.    Provision of: (a) management development training for FP
coordinators and staff with program responsibilities, including
preparation of a reference manual of management procedures and
visits to provincial and field levels for supervision; (b) training
for trainers of family planning; (c) in-service training, including
short overseas visits, of health workers at all levels, and seminars
on family planning for community leaders; and (d) overseas training
for doctors and senior nurses in clinical and management aspects of
family planning, and a short certificate course in family planning
for doctors.

4.    Provision of technical assistance for improvement and
expansion of in-service training capacity, including distance
learning, for health workers at the national and provincial levels,
strengthening of provincial family planning management capacity and
improvement of the MCH/FP component of the health information
system.

5.    Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the development of
the program of clinical training in family planning at the
Department of Clinical Science of the Faculty of Medicine of the
University of PNG; (b) the carrying out of an annual program of
seminars in family planning for doctors and senior nurses; and (c)
the development of a short certificate course in FP for doctors.

Part B: Program Support

1.    Contraceptive/Pharmaceutical Supply and Logistic System

      (a)   Renovation of the area medical store at Rabaul and
renovation and expansion of the area medical store at Mt. Hagen.

      (b)   Provision of contraceptives and STD-related drugs.

      (c)   Provision of equipment for storage and handling of drugs
and contraceptives.

      (d)   Provision of in-service training of pharmaceutical
dispensers, and overseas training and fellowships for senior
managers of the Pharmaceutical Services Section in drug management
and procurement.

      (e)   Provision of technical assistance for: (a) strengthening
of staff and supplies management at the Pharmaceutical Services
Section of the National Department of Health, and (b) improvement of
computer skills and development of an information system at area
medical stores and the Pharmaceutical Services Section of the
National Department of Health.

      (f)   Pre-packaging and transportation of supplies from area
medical stores to health facilities, and supervision and monitoring
of the usage of supplies.

2.    Support for Non-Government Organizations

      (a)   Carrying out of field activities by NGOs for the purpose
of increasing awareness and advocacy of family planning at the
community level, community based distribution of contraceptives and
provision of services.

      (b)   Construction of a new facility for the Council of Women
in the province of Western Highlands.

      (c)   Provision of training to staff of the Women’s Division
of the Department of Religion, Home Affairs and Youth, and to
trainers in the Training Section of the Division of Women’s Affairs.

      (d)   Provision of technical assistance to NGOs for
identification and implementation of field activities and for
training in project management, accounting and report preparation.

3.    Promotion of Health and Family Planning

      (a)   Establishment of the Health Promotion Center within the
National Department of Health, and construction of facilities for
the Center.

      (b)   Provision of equipment for the Health Promotion Center.

      (c)   Preparation and distribution of print, video, radio, and
television messages for promotion of health and family planning at
the national and provincial levels; conducting workshops; and
monitoring of campaign effectiveness.

4.    Population and Family Planning Research

      (a)   Construction of staff houses, and acquisition of
computers and related equipment for the University of PNG.

      (b)   Provision of fellowships and training for staff and
teaching fellows in the field of population studies at the
University of PNG.

      (c)   Provision of technical assistance to the PNG Institute
of Medical Research, and to the Department of Community Medicine and
the Population Studies Program of the University of PNG.

(d)   Carrying out of studies in the areas of population
research.

5.    Demographic Data Collection and Utilization

      (a)   Provision of training and fellowships for staff of the
National Statistical Office and provincial statistical staff.

      (b)   Carrying out of a demographic and health sample survey
and provision of technical assistance and training to the National
Statistical Office.

      (c)   Provision of technical assistance for the establishment
of a pilot provincial data system/civil registration in the Province
of East New Britain, and acquisition of related equipment.

6.    Project Monitoring, Evaluation, Management, and Implementation

      (a)   Provision of office equipment, furniture and vehicles
for the Population Planning Unit and the Project Implementation
Unit.

      (b)   Provision of training including overseas visits, for the
staff of the Population Planning Unit and the Project Implementation
Unit.

      (c)   Provision of technical assistance for project management
and implementation, and monitoring and evaluation.

      (d)   Carrying out of research studies on population and
family planning issues.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

October 15, 1998                                 130,000
April 15, 1999                                   135,000
October 15, 1999                                 140,000
April 15, 2000                                   145,000
October 15, 2000                                 150,000
April 15, 2001                                   155,000
October 15, 2001                                 160,000
April 15, 2002                                   165,000
October 15, 2002                                 175,000
April 15, 2003                                   180,000
October 15, 2003                                 185,000
April 15, 2004                                   195,000
October 15, 2004                                 200,000
April 15, 2005                                   205,000
October 15, 2005                                 215,000
April 15, 2006                                   225,000
October 15, 2006                                 230,000
April 15, 2007                                   240,000
October 15, 2007                                 250,000
April 15, 2008                                   260,000
October 15, 2008                                 270,000
April 15, 2009                                   280,000
October 15, 2009                                 290,000
April 15, 2010                                   300,000
October 15, 2010                                 310,000
April 15, 2011                                   320,000
October 15, 2011                                 335,000

April 15, 2012                                   345,000
October 15, 2012                                 360,000
April 15, 2013                                   350,000

_______________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, contraceptives and STD
related antibiotics shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for contraceptives and
STD related drugs shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Papua New Guinea
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 below, civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Civil works in remote areas for renovation and extension of
district health/FP centers estimated to cost $40,000 or less per
contract, may be carried out by force account up to an aggregate
amount of not more than $500,000.

4.    Except as provided in paragraphs 5 and 8 below, equipment and
vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

6.    Furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    Contracts for computer software and books shall be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

8.    Small medical equipment and health kits for health centers and
hospitals, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be
procured through UNICEF/UNFPA, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the

preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.5, B.4
(c) and B.6 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ the
consultants referred to in Section 6.01 (d) (i) and (iii) of this
Agreement and in paragraph 2 (a) and (c) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment which shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall employ the following consultants to assist
in the carrying out of the Project:

      (i)   a senior project advisor, DFP;

     (ii)   a health promotion specialist, NDOH; and

    (iii)   a non-government organization program facilitator,
            Department of Home Affairs and Youth.

2.     The Borrower shall employ the following staff:

      (i)   a senior project coordinator at the Project
            Implementation Unit, NDOH;

     (ii)   a national coordinator of MCH/FP training, NDOH;

    (iii)   a family planning coordinator in the Province of East
            New Britain;

     (iv)   a family planning coordinator in the Province of Eastern
            Highlands;

      (v)   a family planning coordinator in the Province of Morobe;
            and

     (vi)   a family planning coordinator in the Province of

Southern Highlands.

3.     In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:

       (a)  not later than September 1, 1993, employ the following
staff:

      (i)   a communication research officer at the Health Promotion
            Center, NDOH;

     (ii)   a multi-media materials production officer at the Health
            Promotion Center, NDOH;

    (iii)   a MCH/FP communications officer at the Health Promotion
            Center, NDOH;

     (iv)   an information retrieval/dissemination officer at the
            Health Promotion Center, NDOH;

      (v)   a computer keyboard operator at the Health Promotion
            Center, NDOH;

     (vi)   an accountant at the Population Planning Unit, DFP; and

    (vii)   a keyboard operator at the Population Planning Unit,
            DFP.

      (b)   not later than January 1, 1994, employ a family planning
supervisor in the National Capital District and a family planning
counsellor in East New Britain;

      (c)   not later than April 1, 1994, employ the following
staff:

      (i)   a pharmacist at the Pharmaceutical Services Section,
            NDOH;

     (ii)   a procurement officer at the Pharmaceutical Services
            Section, NDOH;

    (iii)   a data entry clerk in the Province of East New Britain;

     (iv)   an accounts clerk in the Province of Eastern Highlands;

      (v)   a logistics officer in the Province of Morobe; and

     (vi)   a logistics clerk in the Province of Southern Highlands.

      (d)   not later than July 1, 1994, employ an assistant social
scientist at the Institute of Medical Research at Goroka;

      (e)   not later than January 1, 1995, employ a MCH/FP
supervisor at Tari in the Province of Southern Highlands;

      (f)   not later than January 1, 1996, employ a family planning
supervisor in the National Capital District; and

      (g)   not later than January 1, 1997, employ a MCH/FP
supervisor at Ialibu in the Province of Southern Highlands.

4.    In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than January 1, 1994, employ a consultant as
Director Family Planning, Department of Clinical Sciences,
University of PNG;

      (b)   not later than April 1, 1994, employ a consultant as
Pharmaceutical Supply System Specialist, Pharmaceutical Services
Section, NDOH; and

      (c)   not later than July 1, 1994, employ a consultant as
Population/Family Planning Specialist in Curriculum Development,

Department of Clinical Sciences, University of PNG.

5.    The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1996, carry
out, in consultation with the Bank, a review of the implementation
of the Project, and, thereafter, promptly take any action required
by the results of the review.

6.    The Borrower shall employ, and thereafter, maintain, qualified
staff in adequate numbers:

      (a)   at the National Department of Health and Provincial
Divisions of Health for implementation of the improved family
planning programs;

      (b)   at the Pharmaceutical Services Section for preparation
of technical specifications, drug quantification, bid evaluation,
delivery scheduling and quality control;

      (c)   at the National Department of Health’s Health Promotion
Center for implementation of the health and family planning
promotion program; and

      (d)   at the Institute of Medical Research at Goroka, Eastern
Highlands.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment

or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,                   
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the

relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.