World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3636 SLO

                          Loan Agreement

         (Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 16, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3636 SLO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 16, 1993 between REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 17, 1993
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s
economy and reform of the Borrower’s enterprise and financial
sectors (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
and technical assistance services required during such execution;
and

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.";

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);

      (b)   "BOS" means the Bank of Slovenia, the Central Bank of
the Borrower;

      (c)   "Banks under Rehabilitation" means Ljubljanska Banka,
D.D., Ljubljana; Kreditna banka Maribor, D.D., Maribor; and
Komercialna Banka Nova Gorica, D.D.;

      (d)   "tolar" means the currency of the Borrower; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency a special deposit

account in a commercial bank or its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                          ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank such studies, programs and training activities which, in the
opinion of the Borrower and the Bank, are required for the
successful and timely execution of the Program;

      (b)   upon the completion of each of such studies, programs
and activities, furnish to the Bank a report (of such scope and
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request) on their results and
allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon; and

      (c)   ensure the availability, as needed, of the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying
out of the studies, activities and programs referred to in this
Section.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of

expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                          ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Zupanaiaeva 3
            Ljubljana
            Republic of Slovenia

                                                Telex:

                                                86231284

     For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                   82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA

                        By /s/ G. Zore
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services to be
financed out of such proceeds, in accordance with the allocation of
the Loan to the following Categories:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods and                 75,000,000        100% of foreign
    related services                            expenditures

(2) Consultants’               5,000,000        100%
    services and
    training
                              __________

         TOTAL                80,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means the expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

     Group         Sub-group              Description of Items

      112             -                   Alcoholic beverages

      121             -                   Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                          tobacco refuse

      122             -                   Tobacco, manufactured
                                          (whether or not con-
                                          taining tobacco sub-
                                          stitutes)

      525             -                   Radioactive and
                                          associated materials

      667             -                   Pearls, precious and
                                          semi-precious stones,
                                          unworked or worked

      718         718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and
                                          parts thereof, fuel
                                          elements (cartridges),
                                          non-irradiated for
                                          nuclear reactors

      728.43          -                   Tobacco processing
                                          machinery

      897         897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver
                                          or platinum group metals
                                          (except watches and
                                          watch cases) and gold-
                                          smiths’ or silversmiths’
                                          wares (including set
                                          gems)

      971             -                   Gold, non-monetary
                                          (excluding gold ores and
                                          concentrates)

      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that (i) withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) before that date
but after April 1, 1993, and (ii) withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures under Category (2) before that date
but after April 1, 1993;

      (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;

      (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.

4.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after

the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $35,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.

6.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 5
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning February 15, 1999
      through   August 15, 2008                 4,000,000

________________________

*     The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73

not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years                        1.00
      before maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other
to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

3.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with paragraph 1 of
this Section I, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the

Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Program. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other international recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

4.    Goods of a proprietary nature may be purchased from suppliers
on the basis of negotiated contracts pursuant to procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

5.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

6.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank. The Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Program. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

7.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. Where payments
under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account, such copies together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

8.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 5 and
6 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the documentation and the information to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

9.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 8 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the technical
assistance referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall employ management, banking, legal and economic
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such

consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

A.    Macroeconomic Reform

1.    Macroeconomic Performance

      Continued maintenance of the macroeconomic framework
consistent with the objectives of the Program as determined on the
basis of indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.

2.    Adoption of Fiscal Policies

      Adoption by the Borrower of the 1994 budget limiting the
general budget deficit to not more than 2% of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP), providing overall support to the reforms of about 5.4% of
GDP, and containing minimum support to the key reform activities,
including bank restructuring at about 2.3% of GDP, enterprise
restructuring at about 0.9% of GDP and social safety net at about
2.2% of GDP, and adoption by the Borrower of the 1994 budget
reducing general expenditures and revenues by not less than 1% of
GDP.

3.    Pension Reform

      Adoption by the Borrower of measures to limit pension
expenditures to not more than 12.5% of GDP in 1994, and submission
to the Parliament of revised pension legislation.

4.    Income Policies

      Continued implementation of the wage policy in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.

B.    Enterprise Sector

1.    Privatization and Restructuring

      Carrying out of the privatization of about 400 socially-owned
enterprises accounting for about 20% of the value-added contribution
of all enterprises subject to the Law on Ownership Transformation
and regulations thereunder.

2.    Reform of State-Owned Enterprises

      (a)   Conversion of all socially-owned enterprises in the
commercial public service subsectors, designated by the Borrower,
into state-owned enterprises in accordance with the Law on
Commercial Public Services and regulations thereunder.

      (b)   Establishment of a governance structure for all state-
owned enterprises in accordance with the Companies Law.

(c)   Submission to the Parliament of draft legislation to
govern the organization and regulatory framework of the energy,
telecommunications and railway subsectors and to specify the
activities of said subsectors to be privatized in the medium-term.

3.    Program for Loss-Making Enterprises

      Implementation of the Borrower’s medium-term restructuring
program for the steel subsector; implementation of the Borrower’s
price adjustment program for the electric power subsector;
finalization of the Borrower’s restructuring program for the railway
subsector; and achievement of satisfactory progress in the reduction
of losses and in the implementation of the reforms in said
subsectors.

C.    Banking Sector Reform

1.    Bank Restructuring Program

      (a)   Bank Rehabilitation

      Satisfactory progress in the implementation of bank
rehabilitation, including achievement by the Banks under
Rehabilitation of a capital asset ratio (CAR) of not less than 4%
and a positive operating cash flow; satisfactory progress by said
Banks in the implementation of institutional development programs;
and restructuring of the banking system in a manner that ensures
that individual banks do not hold more than 40% of the total
deposits of the system.

      (b)   Institutional Arrangements

      Adoption of new legislation or amendments to existing
legislation governing the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA)
reflecting its expanded role and responsibilities; implementation by
the BRA of a program for its operations, including multi-year
financial requirements to support bank rehabilitation; appointment
by the BRA of a board of directors for each bank under
rehabilitation; and approval by each Bank under rehabilitation of
performance indicators and targets for its recovery.

      (c)   Foreign Currency Deposits

      Based on a review of the Borrower’s program for foreign
currency deposits, revision if necessary of said program to
strengthen bank rehabilitation.

2.    Debt Recovery

      (a)   Classified Debts

      Restructuring of at least one-third of the debtor enterprises
and one-third of the debts transferred from the accounts of the
Banks under Rehabilitation to the accounts of the BRA.

      (b)   Guidelines for Debt Recovery

      Implementation of the guidelines of the BRA for debt recovery
and of the regulations of the BOS for adversely classified
borrowers.

3.    Legal and Regulatory Framework

      (a)   Laws and Regulations

      Enactment by the Parliament of amendments to the Banking Law
and the Bank Rehabilitation Law in a manner agreed with the Bank,
and adoption by BOS of revisions to its regulations consistent with
said amendments.

      (b)   Bank Supervision

Progress in implementing the plan adopted by BOS to
strengthen bank supervisory capabilities as determined in accordance
with agreed guidelines.

      (c)    Bank Privatization

      Adoption of a privatization strategy for the Banks under
Rehabilitation in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of consultants’ services and training
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible

expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.