World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3623 RUS

                          Loan Agreement

                   (Oil Rehabilitation Project)

                              between

                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 12, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3623 RUS

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1993, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   The Bank has received a letter dated April 23, 1993 from
the Borrower expressing its intention with respect to oil prices and
consultation with the Bank on the Borrower’s oil sector reform
program;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in
an amount equivalent to $250,000,000 to assist in financing Parts A
and B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and EBRD;

(D)   the Borrower intends to receive from the Dutch
Government a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount equivalent to
$6,000,000 to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Dutch Government;
and

      (E)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by
Kogalymneftegas Producer Association (Kogalymneftegas), Part B of
the Project will be carried out by Purneftegas Producer Association
(Purneftegas) and Part C of the Project will be carried out by
Varyeganneftegas Producer Association (Varyeganneftegas), all with
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas and
Varyeganneftegas the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Kogalymneftegas
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Kogalymneftegas, in the Purneftegas Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and Purneftegas and in the
Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and Varyeganneftegas;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated February
9, 1993 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and Kogalymneftegas Producer Association
(Kogalymneftegas) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Purneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and Purneftegas Producer Association (Purneftegas)
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Purneftegas Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and Varyeganneftegas Producer Association
(Varyeganneftegas) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement;

      (d)   "Kogalymneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Kogalymneftegas pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Kogalymneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "Purneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Purneftegas
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Purneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

(f)   "Varyeganneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Varyeganneftegas pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Varyeganneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated August 28, 1992 and September 15, 1992
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (h)   "Kogalymneftegas" means Kogalymneftegas Producer
Association, incorporated under its Charter dated May 24, 1993, (The
Charter) or any successor thereto;

      (i)   "Purneftegas" means Purneftegas Producer Association,
incorporated under its Charter dated May 25, 1993, (The Charter) or
any successor thereto; and

      (j)   "Varyeganneftegas" means Varyeganneftegas Producer
Association,  incorporated under its Charter dated May 24, 1993,
(The Charter) or any successor thereto.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of six hundred ten million dollars ($610,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.

      (b)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency
LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the
Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.

(b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to but not
                  including the first Interest Payment Date and
                  thereafter the period from and including any
                  Interest Payment Date to but not including the
                  next Interest Payment Date.

           (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified
                  in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

          (iii)   "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London
                  interbank offered rate for dollars, expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, reasonably determined by
                  the Bank in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
                  Agreement.

           (iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period,
                  the weighted average margin between: (A) the cost
                  of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank or
                  portions thereof allocated during the preceding
                  Semester to the funding of single currency loans
                  in all currencies, and (B) the specific London
                  and, for French francs, Paris interbank offered
                  rates or other such reference rates attributable
                  to such borrowings in each such currency, all as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum. For any Interest
                  Period in which (A) exceeds (B), the Average
                  Margin shall be added under paragraph (a) above.
                  For any Interest Period in which (B) exceeds (A),
                  the Average Margin shall be subtracted under
                  paragraph (a) above.

            (v)   "Semester" means the first six months or second
                  six months of a calendar year.

      (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency
LIBOR and the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such determination.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:

            (i)   shall carry out Part D of the Project with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial
                  practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
                  the funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources required for such Part of the Project;
                  and

           (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                  other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall cause Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas
                  and Varyeganneftegas to perform in accordance
                  with the provisions of the Kogalymneftegas
                  Project Agreement, the Purneftegas Project
                  Agreement and the Varyeganneftegas Project

Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of
                  Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas and Varyeganneftegas
                  therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
                  taken all action, including the provision of
                  funds, licenses, permits, facilities, services
                  and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                  enable Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas and
                  Varyeganneftegas to perform such obligations, and
                  shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                  which would prevent or interfere with such
                  performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $272 million
to Kogalymneftegas under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Kogalymneftegas, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include: (i) twelve year maturity with two years grace period; (ii)
interest rate at Bank’s rate plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii)
foreign exchange risk borne by Kogalymneftegas.

      (c)   The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $158 million
to Purneftegas under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Purneftegas, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include: (i)
twelve year maturity with two years grace period; (ii) interest rate
at Bank’s rate plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii) foreign exchange
risk borne by Purneftegas.

      (d)   The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $170 million
to Varyeganneftegas under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Varyeganneftegas, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include: (i) twelve year maturity with two years grace period; (ii)
interest rate at Bank’s rate plus 0.75% as premium; and (iii)
foreign exchange risk borne by Varyeganneftegas.

      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Kogalymneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Kogalymneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      (f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Purneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Purneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      (g)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Varyeganneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Varyeganneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by Kogalymneftegas pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement; (b) Part B of the
Project shall be carried out by Purneftegas pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Purneftegas Project Agreement; and (c) Part C of the Project
shall be carried out by Varyeganneftegas pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement.

      Section 3.03 In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment

shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than three months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)   Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas or Varyeganneftegas shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement, Purneftegas Project Agreement or
Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement, respectively.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas or
Varyeganneftegas will be able to perform its obligations under the
Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement, Purneftegas Project Agreement or
Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement, respectively.

      (c)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Kogalymneftegas to perform any of its
obligations under the Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Purneftegas to perform any of its
obligations under the Purneftegas Project Agreement.

      (e)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Varyeganneftegas to perform any of its
obligations under the Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement.

      (f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Kogalymneftegas or for the suspension of its operations.

      (g)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Purneftegas or for the suspension of its operations.

      (h)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Varyeganneftegas or for the suspension of its operations.

      (i)   The EBRD Loan Agreement and the Dutch Grant Agreement
shall not have become effective by October 31, 1993, or such later
date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      (j)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f),
(g) and (h) of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower, Kogalymneftegas, Purneftegas and
Varyeganneftegas.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Kogalymneftegas Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Kogalymneftegas, and is legally binding
upon Kogalymneftegas in accordance with its terms;

      (b)   that the Purneftegas Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Purneftegas, and is legally binding upon
Purneftegas in accordance with its terms;

      (c)   that the Varyeganneftegas Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by Varyeganneftegas, and is legally
binding upon Varyeganneftegas in accordance with its terms;

      (d)   that the Kogalymneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kogalymneftegas
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Kogalymneftegas in
accordance with its terms; and

      (e)   that the Purneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Purneftegas and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Purneftegas in accordance with
its terms; and

      (f)   that the Varyeganneftegas Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
Varyeganneftegas and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
Varyeganneftegas in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
            103097 Moscow
            Ilyinka Street 9
            Russian Federation

                                          Telex:

                                            112008

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as
of the day and year first above written.

                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                  By /s/ Yuri Shafranik
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Ahmed Jehani
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

Part A of the Project:

(1) Equipment                213,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Chemicals                  1,200,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Technical oil             37,300,000        100%
    field services

(4) Technical                  4,500,000        100%
    assistance

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Refunding of                 300,000        Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(6) Interest and other        15,700,000        Amount due pur-
    charges on the                              suant to Section
    Loan accrued on                             2.02 (b) of this
    or before July 14,                          Agreement
    1995

Part B of the Project:

(1) Equipment                118,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Chemicals                  1,900,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Technical oil             24,500,000        100%
    field services

(4) Technical                  4,500,000        100%
    assistance

(5) Refunding of                 300,000        Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement

                                                Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Interest and other         8,500,000        Amount due pur-
    charges on the                              suant to Section
    Loan accrued on                             2.02 (b) of this

or before July 14,                          Agreement
    1995

Part C of the Project:

(1) Equipment                121,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Chemicals                  1,200,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Technical oil             33,000,000        100%
    field services

(4) Technical                  4,500,000        100%
    assistance

(5) Refunding of                 300,000        Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Interest and other         9,500,000        Amount due pur-
    charges on the                              suant to Section
    Loan accrued on                             2.02 (b) of this
    or before July 14,                          Agreement
    1995

Part D of the Project:

(1) Technical                 10,000,000        100%
    Assistance
                             ___________

         TOTAL               610,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) finance specific
investments over two year period in three selected oil producers’
associations, and (b) support the Borrower’s reform programs in the
oil sector in the areas of pricing, taxation, legislation,
restructuring and promotion of private sector investment.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Kogalymneftegas

1.    The carrying out of workovers, of about 700 production oil
wells including the introduction of new technology to increase well
productivity.

2.    The replacement of about 864 km of oil gathering lines and
production flow lines (including fittings) which would reduce oil
leakages and thus address an important environmental concern as well
as recover oil currently wasted.

3.    Technical assistance, data processing and training.

Part B:     Purneftegas

1.    The carrying out of workovers of about 300 production oil
wells including the introduction of new technology to increase well
productivity.

2.    The in-fill drilling of about 84 wells in existing fields.

3.    The replacement of about 95 km of oil gathering lines and
production flow lines (including fittings) which would reduce oil
leakages and thus address important environmental concern as well as
recover oil currently wasted.

4.    Technical assistance, data processing facilities and training.

Part C:    Varyeganneftegas

1.    The carrying out of workovers of about 156 production oil
wells including the introduction of new technology to increase well
productivity.

2.    The completion of about 144 wells already drilled but not
completed and connection of these to the surface infrastructure.

3.    The replacement of about 58 km of oil gathering lines and
production flow lines (including fittings) which would reduce oil
leakages and thus address environmental concern as well as recover
oil currently wasted.

4.    The provision of the following processing equipment: (a) a
2,000 bpd topping plant to produce refined products for oil field
operations; and (b) natural gas liquid extraction units with a
throughput of 175 MMSCFD of natural gas which would recover 875 tons
per day (6,400 bpd) of hydrocarbon liquids. The extraction units
would reduce the amount of gas and liquids being flared, and thereby
provide the environmental benefits of reduced carbon dioxide and
particulate emissions.

5.    Technical assistance, data processing facilities and training.

Part D:     The Borrower’s Ministry of Fuel and Energy

      Technical assistance in support of the Borrower’s oil sector
development and oil sector reform programs including, inter alia,
the following areas:  petroleum project preparation; management
training; enterprise restructuring and privatization; petroleum
pricing; taxation; legislation; project tendering; and oil sector

studies.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
                                  (Expressed in dollars)*

Date Payment Due

For Part A of the Project:

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning January 15, 1999
through January 15, 2010                  11,335,000

On July 15, 2010                          11,295,000

For Part B of the Project:

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning January 15, 1999
through January 15, 2010                  6,585,000

On July 15, 2010                          6,545,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to
      be repaid, except as provided in section 4.04 (d) of the
      General Conditions.

                                   Payment of Principal
                                  (Expressed in dollars)*

For Part C of the Project:

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning January 15, 1999
through January 15, 2010                  7,085,000

On July 15, 2010                          7,045,000

For Part D of the Project:

On each January 15 and July 15

beginning January 15, 1999
through January 15, 2010                    415,000

On July 15, 2010                            455,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to
      be repaid, except as provided in section 4.04 (d) of the
      General Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 4
                Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.    Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the
offered rate for deposits in dollars for a period of six months
which appears on the display designated as page "3750" on the
Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it
for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of
major banks for dollar deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on
the second day on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open
for business in London prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period (the Interest Determination Date).

2.    If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on
such service as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London
offices of four major banks to provide the Bank with the rate at
which deposits in dollars are offered by such banks on the Interest
Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market
for a period of six months commencing on the Interest Payment Date
in question. Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be
the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth
decimal place) of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.

3.    If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such
quotations under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be
arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal
place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at least two
major banks in London selected by the Bank on the Interest
Determination Date for loans in dollars to leading European banks
for a period of six months commencing on the Interest Payment Date
in question. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are quoting
such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the Single Currency in
effect for the last preceding Interest Period.