World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3562 LE

                          Loan Agreement

       (Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project)

                              between

                         LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated March 8, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3562 LE
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1993, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project will be carried
out by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) and Part
E of the Project will be carried out by Banque du Liban (BdL), all
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to CDR and BdL the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the CDR Project Agreement
(as this term is hereafter defined) and in the BdL Project Agreement
(as this term is hereafter defined), both of even date herewith;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms and expression have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "BdL" means Banque du Liban, the Borrower’s central
bank, established and operating pursuant to the Money and Credit Law
promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated August 1,
1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (b)   "BdL Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BdL pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (c)   "BdL Legislation" means the Money and Credit Law
promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated August 1,
1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (d)   "BdL Lending Rate" means a rate not to exceed one half
of one percent per annum (0.5%) above the Cost of Pooled Resources
(as this term is hereafter defined);

      (e)   "BdL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and BdL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time;

      (f)   "BdL Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Beneficiary" means a household to which a Participating
Bank (as this term is hereafter defined) proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan (as this term is hereafter defined) to carry out a
Housing Project (as this term is hereafter defined);

      (h)   "CDR" means Council for Development and Reconstruction,
a public authority established and operating pursuant to Decree No.
5 of the Borrower, dated January 31, 1977, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (i)   "CDR Legislation" means Decree No. 5 of the Borrower,
dated January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to
time, Decree No. 433 of the Borrower, dated September 19, 1977, as
the same may be amended from time to time; and Decree No. 2981 of
the Borrower, dated May 9, 1980, as the same may be amended from
time to time;

      (j)   "CDR Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CDR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time;

(k)   "CDR Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (l)   "CDR Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement;

      (m)   "Cost of Pooled Resources" means a fluctuating interest
rate per annum not to exceed seventy percent (70%) of the rate at
which the Borrower shall pay interest under the Loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement;

      (n)   "EdL" means Electricite du Liban, a public authority
established and operating pursuant to a Law promulgated by Decree
No. 16878 of the Borrower, dated July 10, 1964, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (o)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31;

      (p)   "Housing Project" means a specific project for the
repair or reconstruction of an existing dwelling or the construction
of a new dwelling;

      (q)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment;

      (r)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

      (s)   "MOHER" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Hydraulic and
Electric Resources;

      (t)   "MOPT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications;

      (u)   "MOPW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (v)   "MOTEVT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Technical
Education and Vocational Training;

      (w)   "NERP" means the National Emergency Reconstruction
Program of the Borrower;

      (x)   "PMU" means the Program Management Unit to be
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;

      (y)   "Participating Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between BdL and the Participating Banks (as this term
is hereafter defined) pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 of
the BdL Project Agreement; and "Participating Agreement" means any
such Agreement;

      (z)   "Participating Banks" means such commercial banks,
established and operating in the territory of the Borrower pursuant
to the BdL Legislation, as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank from time to time; and "Participating Bank" means any such
Bank;

      (aa)  "Participating Loan" means a loan made by BdL to a
Participating Bank in accordance with the provisions of Part A of
the Schedule to the BdL Project Agreement;

      (bb)  "SIUs" means, collectively, the Sectoral Implementation
Units to be established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04
(b) of this Agreement; and "SIU" means any such Unit;

      (cc)  "Special Accounts" means, collectively, the CDR Special
Account and the BdL Special Account;

      (dd)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Part E of the Project to a Beneficiary to finance a Housing Project;

and

      (ee)  "Sub-Loan Lending Rate" means a rate per annum not to
exceed five percent per annum (5%) above the BdL Lending Rate.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred seventy five million dollars
($175,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C,
D and F of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special
deposit account in BdL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part E of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
BdL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding

borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. CDR is hereby designated as representative of
the Borrower in respect of Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.

      Section 2.09. BdL is hereby designated as representative of
the Borrower in respect of Part E of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause each of CDR and BdL to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of its respective Project Agreement, all the obligations
of CDR and BdL therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CDR and BdL
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make available as a grant an amount

equivalent to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000) out
of the proceeds of the Loan to CDR under the CDR Subsidiary
Agreement in accordance with terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CDR
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CDR Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      (d)   The Borrower shall make available twenty five million
dollars ($25,000,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to BdL under
the BdL Administration Agreement in accordance with terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the CDR Project Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Parts A, B,
C, D and F of the Project shall be carried out by CDR pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the CDR Project Agreement; and (b) Part E of the
Project shall be carried out by BdL pursuant to Section 2.04 of the
BdL Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. In order to ensure proper implementation of
Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   Establish PMU within CDR with staffing whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The functions of PMU shall
include, inter alia, responsibility for (i) overall planning,
programming and budgeting for NERP; (ii) coordinating sectoral
planning proposals submitted by ministries of the Borrower; (iii)
allocating Loan proceeds among sectors and identifying priority
activities under Parts A, B, C and D of the Project; (iv) preparing
and awarding contracts under Parts A, B, C, D and F of the Project;
(v) carrying out disbursement activities under Parts A, B, C, D and
F of the Project; and (vi) liaising with ministries and agencies of
the Borrower to secure effective Project implementation.

      (b)   Establish two SIUs within MOHER, one to assist in the
implementation of Part A of the Project and the other to assist in
the implementation of Part B of the Project, an SIU within MOE to
assist in the implementation of Part C of the Project and an SIU
within MOPW to assist in the implementation of Part D of the
Project, all with staffing whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. The functions of the SIUs shall include, inter alia,
responsibility for (i) carrying out sector planning, including
master plans, feasibility studies and the preparatory work for the
employment of consultants; (ii) supervising the preparation of
engineering and tender documents and the packaging of contracts;
(iii) employing and supervising consultants; (iv) providing
technical support in  procurement matters; (v) supervising Project
implementation; (vi) periodical reporting to CDR on progress in
Project implementation; and (vii) assisting in carrying out the
studies referred to under Part F of the Project and the action plan
referred to under Section 4.03 of this Agreement, provided, however,
that the provisions of the preceding Sub-section (vii) shall not
apply to the SIU to be established within MOPW.

      Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower

and the Bank shall, not later than September 30 of each year until
completion of the Project, commencing in calendar year 1994, jointly
carry out an annual review to assess overall progress toward
achieving Project objectives.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and for purposes of
ensuring adequate funding for recurrent costs under Parts A, B, C,
and D of the Project, the Borrower shall, for each Fiscal Year until
completion of the Project, take all measures necessary on its part
to make budgetary allocations in such amounts as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments an
action plan designed to improve cost recovery in the Borrower’s
water supply and waste water, power and solid waste sectors through
the generation of revenues sufficient to fund sector operations,
maintenance and recurrent costs.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause operation and
maintenance services under Parts A, B and C of the Project to be
performed by private sector contractors whenever ministries or

agencies of the Borrower are unable to adequately carry out such
services.

      Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risks of
loss resulting from the rate of exchange between the currencies used
in its operations.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Either CDR or BdL shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under its respective Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which shall have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that CDR or BdL will be
able to perform its obligations under its respective Project
Agreement.

      (c)   Either the CDR Legislation or the BdL Legislation shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR or BdL, as the
case may be, to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CDR or BdL or for the suspension of either of CDR or BdL’s
operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the CDR Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by CDR, and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance
with its terms;

      (b)   that the BdL Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BdL, and is legally binding upon BdL in accordance
with its terms;

      (c)   that the CDR Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CDR and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CDR in accordance with its terms; and

      (d)   that the BdL Administration Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BdL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BdL in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Sections 2.08 and 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Beirut, Lebanese Republic

                                          Telex:

                                            923.235.13

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                        By /s/ Simon Karam
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works:

    (a) under Part A            5,000,000)
        of the Project                   )      90% prior to July 1,
                                         )      1994; 60% from
    (b) under Part B                 -   )      July 1, 1994 to
        of the Project                   )      June 30, 1995 and
                                         )      30% thereafter
    (c) under Part C            9,000,000)
        of the Project                   )
                                         )
    (d) under Part D            8,000,000)
        of the Project                   )

(2) Equipment and
    materials:

    (a) under Part A           43,000,000)      100% of foreign
        of the Project                   )      expenditures;
                                         )      100% of local
    (b) under Part B           29,000,000)      expenditures
        of the Project                   )      (ex-factory cost)
                                         )      and 80% of local
    (c) under Part C           16,000,000)      expenditures for
        of the Project                   )      other items pro-
                                         )      cured locally
    (d) under Part D            6,000,000)
        of the Project                   )

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’             16,000,000         100%
    services under
    Parts D.2, D.3 and
    F of the Project

(4) Sub-loans under          25,000,000         100%
    Part E of the
    Project

(5) Unallocated              18,000,000

                             ___________

         TOTAL               175,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures:

(a)   prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed thirteen million
dollars ($13,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2)
and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1993;

      (b)   under Categories (1), (2) and (3), unless PMU has been
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement;

      (c)   under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a), unless the SIU to
assist in the implementation of Part A of the Project has been
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement or unless the Borrower has made other arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to implement Part A of the Project;

      (d)   under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b), unless the SIU to
assist in the implementation of Part B of the Project has been
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement or unless the Borrower has made other arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to implement Part B of the Project;

      (e)   under Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c), unless the SIU to
assist in the implementation of Part C of the Project has been
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement or unless the Borrower has made other arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to implement Part C of the Project;

      (f)   under Categories (1) (d) and (2) (d), unless the SIU to
assist in the implementation of Part D of the Project has been
established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement or unless the Borrower has made other arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to implement Part D of the Project; and

      (g)   under Category (4), unless (i) the Borrower has
established to the satisfaction of the Bank the availability to the
Borrower of concessional funds for Part E of the Project which
shall, when pooled with the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part
E of the Project, result in a cost of funds to the Borrower equal to
the Cost of Pooled Resources; and (ii) BdL has entered into
Participating Agreements with at least three (3) Participating
Banks.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower,
within the framework of the NERP, to: (a) implement a program to
rehabilitate, repair and reconstruct damaged physical and social
infrastructure facilities and housing; and (b) strengthen the
Borrower’s institutional capabilities in implementing the NERP.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Water Supply and Waste Water

      Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to: (i)
protect water sources; (ii) rehabilitate treatment, disinfection,
pumping, transmission and distribution facilities; and (iii)
rehabilitate sewerage systems.

Part B:     Power

       Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to
reconstruct and rehabilitate damaged distribution facilities and
networks and to upgrade existing facilities.

Part C:     Solid Waste

Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to: (i)
prevent further environmental degradation caused by the dumping of
solid waste; (ii) replace damaged and obsolete collection equipment;
and (iii) create and operate suitable disposal sites.

Part D:     Education

1.    Provision of equipment, materials and civil works to
rehabilitate technical and vocational public schools, including
repair and replacement of equipment.

2.    Provision of materials and consultants’ services to develop
curricula and prepare and produce new student textbooks and teacher
guides.

3.    Provision of consultants’ services to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of MOTEVT and assist it in carrying out
personnel training seminars.

Part E:     Housing

      Provision, through BdL and Participating Banks, of Sub-loans
to Beneficiaries to finance Housing Projects.

Part F:     Institutional Strengthening

1.    Provision of consultants’ services:

      (a)   to MOPT to carry out a study to identify and recommend
suitable measures to restructure the Borrower’s telecommunications
sector to facilitate the participation of the private sector in the
provision of telecommunications services;

      (b)   to MOHER to carry out a study to define a long-term
strategy for the efficient development of the Borrower’s power
sector, identify and recommend suitable options to restructure said
sector, define a suitable regulatory framework and recommend
measures to mitigate the environmental impact of sector-related
activities; and

      (c)   to MOE to carry out a study designed to recommend a
long-term solid waste management strategy and identify suitable
measures for the efficient development of solid waste services.

2.    Provision of consultants’ services to:

      (a)   to MOF to assist in enhancing its revenue collection and
strengthening its economic and financial management;

      (b)   MOPT to improve sector management, facilitate the
rehabilitation of existing assets, improve operations and
maintenance and help introduce private sector participation;

      (c)   MOHER to assist in the rehabilitation, restructuring and
development of the Borrower’s power sector and in the reorganization
and restructuring of the Borrower’s water and waste water sector;

      (d)   MOHER and EdL to improve sector management, develop
improved management information systems as well as financial,
accounting, billing, collection, human resource development and
training procedures; and

      (e)   CDR to prepare engineering designs and tender documents
and supervise construction work under Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      December 1, 1997                     4,110,000.00
      June 1, 1998                         4,265,000.00
      December 1, 1998                     4,420,000.00
      June 1, 1999                         4,585,000.00
      December 1, 1999                     4,755,000.00
      June 1, 2000                         4,935,000.00
      December 1, 2000                     5,115,000.00
      June 1, 2001                         5,305,000.00
      December 1, 2001                     5,505,000.00
      June 1, 2002                         5,710,000.00
      December 1, 2002                     5,920,000.00
      June 1, 2003                         6,140,000.00
      December 1, 2003                     6,370,000.00
      June 1, 2004                         6,605,000.00
      December 1, 2004                     6,850,000.00
      June 1, 2005                         7,105,000.00
      December 1, 2005                     7,370,000.00
      June 1, 2006                         7,640,000.00
      December 1, 2006                     7,925,000.00
      June 1, 2007                         8,220,000.00
      December 1, 2007                     8,525,000.00
      June 1, 2008                         8,845,000.00
      December 1, 2008                     9,170,000.00
      June 1, 2009                         9,510,000.00
      December 1, 2009                     9,865,000.00
      June 1, 2010                        10,235,000.00

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

CDR Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited in the CDR Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the CDR Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the CDR Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
CDR Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the CDR Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the CDR Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                   for deposits into the CDR Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the CDR Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the CDR Special Account
                   for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the CDR Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the CDR Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all

further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the CDR Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the CDR Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:(A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the CDR Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the CDR Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the CDR Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the CDR Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                        BdL Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited in the BdL Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the BdL Special Account shall be made

exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the BdL Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
BdL Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the BdL Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the BdL Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                   for deposits into the BdL Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the BdL Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the BdL Special Account
                   for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent amount,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the BdL Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the BdL Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the BdL Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the BdL Special Account: (i) was made for an

expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the BdL Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the BdL Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the BdL Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the BdL Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.