World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3597 HU

                          Loan Agreement

             (Health Services and Management Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 27, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3597 HU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "CGP" means Close the Gap Program, aimed to launch new
initiatives in health promotion and desease prevention and designed
to reduce mortality;

      (b)   "CMO" means the Chief Medical Officer of the Borrower;

      (c)   "NIC" means National Institute of Cardiology;

      (d)   "HINFOC" means Health Information Center, Szekszard;

      (e)   "MOW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Welfare;

      (f)   "HIF" means Health Insurance Fund;

      (g)   "MTD" means MOW Medical Technology Department;

      (h)   "NIHP" means National Institute of Health Promotion;

      (i)   "NIMR" means National Institute of Medical Rehabili-
tation;

      (j)   "NIO" means National Institute of Oncology;

      (k)   "CSO" means Central Statistical Office;

      (l)   "PHPU" means Public Health Program Unit;

      (m)   "PMU" means Project Management Unit within MOW; and

      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety one million dollars ($91,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Hungary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the

Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in

a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out through, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the respective implementing agencies in accordance
with the provision of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,

records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. For the purposes of cost-containment and to
protect the financial viability of HIF, the Borrower shall take all
necessary measures through budget caps and other expenditure
controls, to ensure that the aggregate of all expenditures on health
services financed through HIF for a given year, including
performance-related reimbursements for doctors, hospitals and other
health care providers, would not exceed the health services budget
of HIF for that year (total HIF budget net of cash benefits financed
through health insurance).

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the MOW has signed a contract to employ a management
consultant firm to strengthen the PMU’s project management capacity.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Deputy President or the General Manager of
the National Bank of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   BANKO                         227267 SMAFU-H
                   Budapest                      225755 BANKO-H or

227028 BANKO-H

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

                         By /s/ Andras Javor
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods, including          40,300,000        100% of foreign
    equipment, computer                         expenditures,
    hardwares and                               100% of local
    softwares, books,                           expenditures
    instructional and                           (ex-factory
    other materials                             cost) and 75%
    and furniture                               of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants’              26,100,000        100%
    services, training
    and fellowships

(3) CGP                       16,600,000

    (a)  goods                                  100% of foreign

expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

    (b)  consultants’                           100%
         services,
         training and
         fellowship

(4)  Unallocated               8,000,000
                              __________

    TOTAL                     91,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after July 10, 1992.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures under Category (3) unless Hungarian and international
members for the Close the Gap Committee for the CGP have been
selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and the
first committee meeting has been held.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (1) to improve health
status by beginning to close the gap between Hungary and Western
European countries and by supporting the Borrower’s program of
restructuring the health sector to focus on more effective
interventions; and (2) to provide more efficient and higher quality
care by strengthening the institutional capacity of the health
sector in policy making, management and evaluation.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Health Services Development

(1)   Public Health and Disease Prevention: Carrying out of a
program of restructuring and strengthening the health sector by:

      (a)   strengthening of the National Public Health Center
through (i) reorganization, training, and limited information
system; and (ii) setting up a CGP;

(b)   designing and implementing of specific interventions
(including, but not limited to a national anti-smoking campaign, an
anti-alcohol campaign) in primary prevention in order to reduce the
levels of chronic disease risk factors in the population;

      (c)   strengthening of chronic disease secondary prevention
through an improved cancer registration system and screening;

      (d)   improvement of school-based health promotion activities
through training of teachers, health visitors and primary care
doctors working in schools, health education curricula in schools
and surveys of the students’, teachers’ and parents’ health related
attitudes and behaviors; and

      (e)   implementing a national health examination survey.

(2)  Institutional Care: Strengthening of certain institutions
targeted to focus on Hungary’s most important health problems by
providing diagnostic and therapeutic equipment for:

      (a)   a national and four regional cardiovascular centers
(non-invasive and limited invasive coronary care services);

      (b)   five selected stroke centers (early detection
equipment); and

      (c)   a national and local rehabilitation service.

Part B:     Policy Making and Management.

(1)   Public Health and Management Training: Support for the
establishment of a School of Public Health and a School of Health
Services Management and building up their capacities through
provision of training, fellowships, equipment and teaching
materials.

(2)   Management Support System: Strengthening the management
capacity of the health sector by providing policy makers, planners
and managers with modern information systems, training and office
equipment necessary to gather accurate and up-to-date information on
reasons for visits to health facilities, health services outputs and
health care expenditures.

(3)   Project Management: Strengthening the capacity of the PMU to
coordinate projects in the health sector by providing with services
of project management consultants, as well as training and equipment
needed for these activities.

(4)   Preinvestment Study. Assisting in the preparation of
preinvestment studies for hospitals and specialist services.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

      beginning December 15, 1998
      through   December 15, 2007          4,550,000

and on June 15, 2008                       4,550,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Hungary may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent $300,000 or less per contract, not to exceed an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,900,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures

acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three local suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

3.    Goods and technical items such as books, technical journals,
training materials, audio-visual materials, computer applications
software, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights for training
materials which the Bank agrees: (a) are of proprietary nature; (b)
the timely supply thereof is critical for efficient Project
execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other installed
equipment may be procured through direct negotiations with the
proprietors thereof, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, provided, that with respect
to the first contracts under each subcomponent estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more and all the contracts under Part A
(1,a(ii)) of the Project estimated to cost $300,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II: Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to

assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
within the MOW the Project Management Unit (PMU) to be headed by a
full-time project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall
be acceptable to the Bank, and who shall be assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.

2.    The responsibilities and functions of the PMU which has
an overall responsibility over Project coordination, shall be, at
all times, adequate to assist in and monitor the resource flows to
the implementing agencies, and channel major project issues that may
arise to the immediate attention of MOW management and external
agencies including the Bank, for resolution.

3.    The Borrower shall make adequate arrangements for the Project
to be implemented by the implementing agencies, who shall be
assisted by the respective line departments of the MOW and agencies
of the Borrower, all in accordance with the Annex to this Schedule.

4.    Not later than June 1, 1993, a new Public Health Program Unit
(PHPU) shall be established in the Office of the CMO under direct
control of the CMO and shall be maintained to manage the Public
Health subcomponent of the Project. The PHPU shall be staffed with
a full-time director and a project manager, whose experience and
qualifications shall be acceptable to the Bank and who shall be
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. The PHPU shall
liaise with the PMU and collaborate with other implementing
agencies.

5.    The Borrower shall apply the criteria, guidelines and
procedures for awards of grants under the CGP agreed upon with the
Bank, and future changes to, or introduction of, new criteria,
guidelines and procedures shall be subject to Bank approval prior to
their introduction and implementation.

6.     Not later than March 31 of each year during the execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a technical and
financial report, of such coverage, detail, and format as the Bank
may reasonably request, on the status of Project implementation (as
of December 31 of each year) and review, thereafter with the Bank
issues related to the execution of the Project.

7.    Not later than December 31, 1996, the Bank will review with
the Borrower the progress made in meeting the objectives of the
public health strategy and cost containment in the health sector
through budget caps and other expenditure controls. The Borrower
will take all necessary measures to execute the actions identified
and agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower during such
review.

                    ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

Part of the        Responsible Line
  Project          Department/Agency       Implementing Agency

Part A (1)         Office of the CMO
Public Health

Part A (1,a)                               Public Health Program
                                           Unit (PHPU)

Part A (1,b)                               National Institute of
                                           Health Promotion (NIHP)

Part A (1,c)                               National Institute of
                                           Oncology

Part A (1,d)                               NIHP

Part A (1,e)                               Central Statistical
                                           Office (CSO)

Part A (2)         MOW Departments
Institutional      responsible for
Care               health policy
                   and medical
                   technology

Part A (2,a)                               National Institute of
                                           Cardiology (NIC) and
                                           implementing agencies
                                           acceptable to the Bank

Part A (2,b)                               Stroke Programs within
                                           the Health Policy
                                           Department of the MOW
                                           and other implementing
                                           agencies acceptable to
                                           the Bank

Part A (2,c)                               National Institute of
                                           Medical Rehabilitation
                                           and local centers/NIC

  Part of the      Responsible Line
  Project          Department/Agency       Implementing Agency

Part B             MOW Department
Public Health      of Education
and Management
Training

Part B (1)                                 Semmelweis Medical
                                           University and
                                           National Public
                                           Health Center

Part B (2)         MOW Information         Health Information
                   Department              Center (Hinfoc)Szekszard
                                           other implementing
                                           agencies acceptable to
                                           the Bank

Part B (3)                                 MOW Project Management
                                           Unit (PMU)

Part B (4)                                 Policy Development Unit
                                           of the MOW

                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this

Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible

expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.