World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3665 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

                (Fifth Water Supply Project - ONEP)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                THE NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY

                      Dated December 3, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3665 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and THE NATIONAL WATER
SUPPLY AUTHORITY (hereinafter referred to variously as the Borrower
or ONEP).

      WHEREAS: (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee certain obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Borrower and/or the Guarantor intend to contract
from other external sources of funds (the Cofinanciers) one or more
loans (the Cofinanciers’ Loans) in an aggregate amount equivalent to
$84,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinanciers’ Loan
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and/or the
Guarantor and the Cofinanciers; and

      (D)   the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Guarantor to

assist in the financing of activities related to the Project, upon
the terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank (the Kingdom Loan
Agreement) and six related Project Agreements of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Participating Utilities (as defined in
Section 1.02 (g) of this Agreement); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Basic Legislation" means the Guarantor’s Dahir No.
1
103 dated April 3, 1972, pursuant to which the Borrower was
established and is operating, as the same may be amended from time
to time.

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing
on January 1 and ending on December 31.

      (d)   "ONEP Performance Contract" means the agreement (contrat
programme) dated November 13, 1992 between the Guarantor and the
Borrower setting forth undertakings designed to enable the Borrower
to achieve certain investment, financial and operational targets
during the Fiscal Years 1993 through 1995, as the same shall be
updated each Fiscal Year in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (e)   "Investment, Financial and Operational Targets" means
the investment, financial and operational targets set forth in the
ONEP Performance Contract to be achieved during the Fiscal Years
1993 through 1995, as the same shall be updated from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (f)   "Kingdom Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank for a Fifth
Water Supply Project - Kingdom (Loan No. 3664 MOR).

      (g)   "Participating Utilities Project Agreements" means the
project agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Casablanca (RAD),
the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Fes (RADEEF),
the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Rabat-Sal�ı
(RED), the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Meknes

(RADEEM), the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of
Marrakech (RADEEMA), and the Water and Electricity Distribution
Authority of Kenitra (RAK), for a Fifth Water Supply Project -
Kingdom (Loan No. 3664 MOR); and "Participating Utilities" means,
collectively, the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of
Casablanca, the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Fes,
the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Rabat-Sale, the
Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of Meknes, the Water
and Electricity Distribution Authority of Marrakech, and the Water
and Electricity Distribution Authority of Kenitra.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty two million dollars ($32,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part C of the
Project, open and maintain a special deposit account in a currency
and a financial institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down

after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                   (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
                   July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, technical and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,

financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of

expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year
1993, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of
the annual average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred,
or expected to be incurred, for that Fiscal Year, the previous
Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year.

      (b)   Before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal
Year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Year
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation, recommendation
for adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer
                         contributions in aid of construction, net
                         non-operating income and any reduction in
                         working capital other than cash; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance and taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                         provision for depreciation and other non-
                         cash operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                         working capital other than cash and other
                         cash outflows other than capital
                         expenditures.

           (ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   Fiscal Year.

           (iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year.

(v)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                   dividends.

           (vi)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.

          (vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.03.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall reach, for each Fiscal Year, a ratio of total
working expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 50%,
for Fiscal Year 1995; and 47% for Fiscal Year 1998.

      (b)   Before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect
of such year and the next following Fiscal year, and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, recommendation for adjustments of the structure or
levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The terms "total working expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                   depreciation, interest and other charges on
                   debt.

           (ii)    The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.

      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on
all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.

           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument

providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.

          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations and net non-
                         operating income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.

           (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

           (vi)    The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                   months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                   question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                   accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank
                   has notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                   provided that no event has occurred since such
                   notification which has, or may reasonably be
                   expected in the future to have, a material
                   adverse effect on the financial condition or
                   future operating results of the Borrower.

          (vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall for each Fiscal Year,
commencing with the 1995 Fiscal Year maintain its water supply
receivables at a level which shall not exceed its average three
months’ billings.

      (b)   Before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to
the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and shall furnish to the Bank
a copy of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not

meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Year
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For purposes of this Section the following terms have
the following meanings:

            (i)    "water supply receivables" means the aggregate
                   amount of all water bills outstanding at the end
                   of the Fiscal Year under review;

           (ii)    "water bills" means the amounts periodically
                   billed by the Borrower for the supply of water
                   and the provision of related services by the
                   Borrower; and

          (iii)    "average three months’ billing" shall be
                   calculated by dividing the aggregate amount of
                   all water bills issued by the Borrower during
                   the Fiscal Year under review by four.

      Section 5.06. The provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated July 27, 1987
(Loan No. 2825 MOR - National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project)
are hereby amended to read as set forth in Section 5.04 of this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Basic Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of the Borrower
or its ability to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      (b)   The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Kingdom Loan Agreement.

      (c)   The Guarantor or the Borrower shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations under the ONEP Performance
Contract.

      (d)   The proceeds of the financing provided under the
Cofinanciers’ Loan Agreements shall not have become available to the
Borrower before July 1, 1997; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      (e)   (i)    Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan or grant shall have become
                         due and payable prior to the agreed
                         maturity thereof.

           (ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such

suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

      (b)   Any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower.

      (c)   The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of
paragraph (e) (ii) of said Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Kingdom Loan Agreement and of the Participating Utilities Project
Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Director of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Office National de l’Eau Potable
            6 bis rue Patrice Lumumba
            Rabat
            Maroc

Telex:

                                             31982 M

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                         THE NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AUTHORITY

                         By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                5,000,000      60%
      and supply
      and installa-
      tion of pipe-
      lines

(2)   Supply and                 8,000,000      75%
      installation of
      material and
      equipment

(3)   Goods                     11,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4)   Consultants’               4,000,000      100%
      services and
      training

(5)   Unallocated                4,000,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                     32,000,000
                                ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after May 6, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in strengthening
the institutional capabilities of the Borrower and improving the
delivery of potable water in urban and rural areas.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Borrower

Ministry of Public Works - Hydraulics Administration.

(1)   Carrying out of hydrogeological studies and the drilling of
boreholes to expand the urban and rural water supply; provision of
equipment to measure hydrological and hydrogeological data and to
test water quality and of computer hardware and software, as
required to study and evaluate the Borrower’s water resources; and
development and carrying out of training programs to strengthen the
technical skills of staff of the Hydraulics Administration of the
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works.

Ministry of Public Works - National Meteorology Directorate.

(2)   Extension and development of the network of measurement of
meteorological data through the construction of automatic
meteorological stations, of aerologic stations, of meteorological
sectors for rainfalls and of equipment for the reception of
satellite data. Installation of computer systems for the analysis
and the treatment of meteorologic scope implementation of training
programs to strengthen the technical capabilities of the National
Meteorology Directorate to improve the assistance the National
Meteorology Directorate can give to the socio-economic sectors.

Ministry of Public Health

(3)   Carrying out of a program to sensitize the Borrower’s
populations living in endemic areas on public health issues and
water-borne diseases and to evaluate and improve the quality of
potable water in rural areas; provision of equipment, supplies and
vehicles required therefor; and construction and/or equipment of
epidemiological diagnoses of laboratories.

Ministry of Interior

(4)   Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate water supply
facilities and install, operate and maintain pumps in rural areas,
including the provision of equipment, vehicles, workshop vehicles
and training required therefor.

Part B:     Participating Utilities

(1)   Rehabilitation, extension and strengthening in the areas
serviced by the Participating Utilities listed below, of water
production and distribution systems, for the connection of houses to
said systems, provision and/or repair of equipment and vehicles
required therefor, and provision of equipment required for leak
detection in said areas:

      (a)   area serviced by RAD;

      (b)   area serviced by RADEEF;

      (c)   area serviced by RED;

      (d)   area serviced by RADEEM;

      (e)   area serviced by RADEEMA; and

      (f)   area serviced by RAK.

(2)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of each of: (a) RAD, (b) RADEEF, (c) RED,
(d) RADEEM, (e) RADEEMA, and (f) RAK, consisting, for said
Participating Utility of: the development and utilization of
appropriate management information systems, cost accounting systems
and methodologies for the valuation of assets; the provision of
computer hardware and software required therefor; and the carrying
out of training programs to strengthen the skills of staff said
Participating Utility.

Part C:     ONEP

(1)   Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate, extend and
strengthen water production and distribution systems in cities and
centers supplied by the Borrower.

(2)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of the Borrower, consisting of:

      (a)   design and implementation of a program to computerize
the Borrower’s functions, including the provision of computer
hardware and software required therefor;

      (b)   the provision of laboratory equipment required to test
water quality;

      (c)   construction of a center for documentation relating to
water supply;

      (d)   preparation of a sewerage master plan; and

      (e)   the development and carrying out of a training program
to strengthen the technical skills of the Borrower’s staff.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

August 1, 1999                            600,000

February 1, 2000                          620,000
August 1, 2000                            645,000
February 1, 2001                          665,000
August 1, 2001                            690,000
February 1, 2002                          720,000
August 1, 2002                            745,000
February 1, 2003                          770,000
August 1, 2003                            800,000
February 1, 2004                          830,000
August 1, 2004                            860,000
February 1, 2005                          895,000
August 1, 2005                            925,000
February 1, 2006                          960,000
August 1, 2006                            995,000
February 1, 2007                        1,035,000
August 1, 2007                          1,070,000
February 1, 2008                        1,110,000
August 1, 2008                          1,155,000
February 1, 2009                        1,195,000
August 1, 2009                          1,240,000
February 1, 2010                        1,285,000
August 1, 2010                          1,335,000
February 1, 2011                        1,385,000
August 1, 2011                          1,435,000
February 1, 2012                        1,490,000
August 1, 2012                          1,545,000
February 1, 2013                        1,600,000
August 1, 2013                          1,660,000
February 1, 2014                        1,740,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                     0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                     0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                       0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                    0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                    0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                     1.00
      maturity

SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall beprocured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

2.    To the extent practicable and to maximize competition,
contracts for the supply and installation of pipes and other
equipment shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Local Competitive Bidding

1.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $800,000, and contracts for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $8,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Local Shopping

2.    Goods and repair services estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in Part A of

this Section I, and with respect to each contract to be awarded in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in Part C.1
of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

      The Borrower shall:

1.    maintain, or cause to be maintained, operational procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the
Project, including the achievement of the Investment, Financial and
Operational Targets;

2.    prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and to the Bank, not

later than September 30 of each Fiscal Year, a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Guarantor and the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the conclusions and recommendations indicated by the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section
1 of this Schedule 5 in respect of the preceding Fiscal Year,
together with revisions proposed to be introduced into the
Investment, Financial and Operational Targets, and a proposed
updated Performance Contract, including proposed Investment,
Financial and Operational Targets for such period, and any other
measures proposed to further the progress in the carrying out of the
Project;

3.    afford the Bank and the Guarantor a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said report, and thereafter, not
later than December 31 of such Fiscal Year, conclude with the
Guarantor such updated Performance Contract and introduce such
revisions into its Investment, Financial and Operational Targets as
shall have been agreed between the Borrower, the Guarantor and the
Bank, and undertake any additional measures to further the progress
in the carrying out of the Project as shall have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank; and

4.    carry out, by order of priority:

            (i)    rehabilitation works at the Bou-Regreg treatment
                   plant;

           (ii)    rehabilitation works of the water production
                   facilities of the Atlantic cost (Fouarat, Bou-
                   Regreg, Ould Mellah, Sidi Daoudi and Thaleb);

          (iii)    the training program;

           (iv)    services for ONEP is computerization; and

            (v)    acquisition of computer equipment.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the

Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.