World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3642 KZ

                          Loan Agreement

                  (Technical Assistance Project)

                              between

                      REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated October 15, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3642 KZ

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "AMC" means the Borrower’s Anti-Monopoly Committee;

      (b)"Executing Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower’s
Ministries and other Governmental Agencies referred to in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy;

      (d)   "MOI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry;

      (e)   "MOL" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor;

      (f)   "MSP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social
Protection;

      (g)   "MEB" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Ecology and
Bioresources;

      (h)   "MAG" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;

      (i)   "MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;

      (j)   "MOJ" means Ministry of Justice;

      (k)   "NAFI" means the Borrower’s National Agency for Foreign
Investment, established by the Council of Ministers’ Decree No. 1073
on December 23, 1992.

      (l)   "NBRK" means National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, the Borrower’s Central Bank;

      (m)   "PIU" means the Project execution unit referred to in
Part E of the Project;

      (n)   "SCSP" means the Borrower’s State Committee for State
Property;

      (o)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
the letter dated October 27, 1992 signed by the Borrower and the
Bank;

      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (q)   "MOG" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Geology and
Mineral Resources Safety; and

      (r)   "SCS" means the Borrower’s State Committee for
Statistics.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty eight million dollars ($38,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Executing Agencies as set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at all
times headed by a coordinator with qualifications, terms of
reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers and by consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, advising on the following matters: procure-
ment, disbursements, privatization, financial sector reform, and
general project supervision.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   carry out all studies included in the Project
                  under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
                  which, when applicable, shall include specific
                  programs or plans of action to meet the
                  objectives of the Project;

           (ii)   promptly after the completion of each study,
                  furnish to the Bank copy of its findings and
                  recommendations including such programs or plans
                  of action; and

(iii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                  comment on such findings, recommendations and
                  programs or plans of action.

      (b)   The Borrower undertakes to carry out the programs and
plans of action referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section as
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. Regarding the training programs to be carried
out under the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each of
such programs as well as the schedule for its implementation;

      (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   not later than September 30 of each year exchange views
with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the
following calendar year; and

      (d)   furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training
program and the benefits to be derived therefrom.

                           ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing

such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
at least two procurement consultants for the PIU, acceptable to the
Bank, have been employed by the Borrower.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Economy
            115 Zheltoksan Street
            Almaty, Kazakhstan

            Telex:

            251 245 FILIN

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan,
as of the day and year first above written.

REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                        By /s/ Daulet K. Sembayev
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods                      8,575,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants’              28,925,000        100%
    Services

(3) Refunding of                 500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
                              __________

         TOTAL                38,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

     (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory

of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures."

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,800,000, may be made for expenditures before that date but after
May 15, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide assistance
in the design and development of the Borrower’s economic reform
policies and programs; (ii) help build the institutional capacity
and skills base to carry out these reform policies and programs; and
(iii) initiate policy work for the development of key sectors of the
Borrower’s economy.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Privatization and Private Sector Development

1.    Provision of technical assistance and training services and
equipment and materials: (i) to continue the execution of the
Borrower’s mass privatization program, and the development of the
legal basis and skills required for the privatization of very large
or otherwise special enterprises; (ii) develop financial supervision
mechanisms for SOEs and arrangements for the restructuring of major
insolvent or illiquid SOEs; and (iii) to strengthening the SCSP.

2.    Provision of technical assistance and training services and of
equipment and materials: (i) to develop and enforce antimonopoly,
fair trade, consumer protection and other policies aimed at
enhancing competition; and (ii) to strengthen the AMC.

3.    Provision of technical assistance and training services: (i)
a develop policy, legal and institutional framework for the
promotion and regulation of foreign investment; (ii) the development
of the oil and mining sectors; and (iii) strengthen NAFI.

Part B:     Financial Sector Development

      Provision of technical assistance services, training and
equipment and materials required to support the reform and
strengthening of the Borrower’s financial sector including: (1)
developing a payment system; (2) developing new auditing and
accounting systems and procedures: (i) strengthening the skills of
accountants and auditors; and (ii) carrying out financial,
institutional and strategy studies of the Borrower’s ten largest
banks; (3) carrying out studies on certain financial areas or
institutions, including a feasibility study for a development bank,
and for alternative arrangements to address problem loans, such as
the establishment of a rehabilitation fund or bank.

Part C:     Social Sector and Human Resource Development

      Provision of technical assistance and training services and
equipment and materials to support the development and execution of
social, health and human resource policies and strengthening of
sector institutions including: (1) designing and carrying out
programs to provide: (i) unemployment relief; and (ii) social
protection targeted to the most vulnerable groups of society and
poverty monitoring; (2) designing and carrying out programs and
policies in the areas of health care reform and financing, and
distribution and retailing of pharmaceuticals; and (3) carrying out
training programs to upgrade job skills in areas such as banking,

accounting, public sector service and enterprise management.

Part D:     Institutional Support

      Provision of technical assistance and training services and
provision of equipment and materials to develop policies and
investment programs in key sectors of the Borrower’s economy and to
provide institutional support to the economic reform program
including: (1) ensuring the development of an adequate legal
framework for the reform program which is modern and internally
consistent, developing a data base to allow easy access to existing
legislation, regulatory instruments and court decisions affecting
business and training legal professionals of public agencies, the
judiciary and private sector; (2) continuing the development of
specific legislation for the financial sector and its institutions
and assisting in the enforcement of such legislation; and (3)
supporting the MEB: (i) in establishing a clear and operational
institutional, policy and legal framework for the protection of that
environment; (ii) advising on question arising from individual
privatization and transaction on the privatization program in
general; and (iii) conducting pilot environmental reviews for large
enterprises in the course of their privatization.

Part E:Project Administration

      Establishment and operation of a project implementation unit
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank in MOE
including the overall coordination and administration of the
activities to be carried out under the Project and the procurement
of goods and services required thereof.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

              Executing Agencies Responsible for the
                    carrying out of the Project

Part of the Project                        Agency

Part A (1)                                 MOE/SCSP
Part A (2)                                 MOE/AMC
Part A (3) (i) and (iii)                   MOE/NAFI
Part A (3) (ii)                            MOI
Part B                                     NBRK
Part C (1) (i)                             MOL
Part C (1) (ii)                            MSP/MOL/SCS
Part C (2)                                 MOH
Part C (3)                                 MOE/NBRK/MOG
Part D (1)                                 MOE/MOJ
Part D (2)                                 MEB
Part E                                     MOE/PIU

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      beginning March 15, 1999
      through   March 15, 2010            1,585,000

On September 15, 2010                     1,545,000