World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3583 IRN

                          Loan Agreement

           (Power Sector Efficiency Improvement Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY

                       Dated April 28, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3583 IRN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TEHRAN REGIONAL
ELECTRICITY COMPANY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Islamic Republic of Iran (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantor Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and

      (C)   to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends
to obtain, with the assistance of the relevant authorities of the
Guarantor, credits from suppliers of goods required under the
Project, in an aggregate amount equivalent to about $47,000,000;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
      several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
      to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
      the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOE" means the Ministry of Energy of the Guarantor;

      (b)   "IPO" means the Iran Power Organization, a semi-
autonomous agency of MOE, responsible for the dispatch of
electricity;

      (c)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed from
the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (d)   "Rial" means the currency of the Guarantor;

      (e)   "Fiscal Year and the sign FY" means any fiscal year of
the Borrower and the Guarantor beginning on March 21 in any calendar
year and ending on March 20 in the succeeding calendar year;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and IPO pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (ii)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (h)   "Suppliers’ Credits" means the credits referred to in
Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred sixty-five million dollars ($165,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay a commission on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Commission Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay the commission accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Commission Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Commission Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Commission Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Commission Period in which
                  this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay commission on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay commission accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Commission Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

"(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Commission and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                         ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall (i) carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and environmental
practices; and (ii) conclude, for purposes of Part B of the Project,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank, a Subsidiary Agreement with IPO whereby:

            (A)   the Borrower shall relend to IPO the proceeds of
                  the Loan allocated from time to time for the
                  carrying out of Part B of the Project under
                  Category (2) (b);

            (B)   IPO shall repay the principal amount withdrawn by
                  it under the Subsidiary Agreement over the same
                  period specified for the amortization of the Loan
                  according to Schedule 3 to this Agreement, with
                  commitment charge and commission at the same
                  annual rates applicable to the Loan from time to
                  time pursuant to Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of this
                  Agreement, respectively;

            (C)   IPO shall assume the foreign exchange risks with
                  respect to amount onlent to it under the
                  Subsidiary Agreement; therefore, amounts
                  withdrawn under the Subsidiary Agreement shall be
                  denominated in their equivalent, on the
                  respective dates of withdrawal, in any
                  internationally used currency agreed upon between
                  the Borrower and IPO, and shall be repaid by IPO,
                  together with the commitment charge and
                  commission due thereon in their Rial equivalent,
                  determined on the respective dates of debt
                  service payment under the Subsidiary Agreement,
                  according to the official rates of exchange
                  applicable to the Subsidiary Agreement; and

            (D)   IPO shall be required to carry out the studies
                  included in Part B of the Project in accordance
                  with the arrangements set forth in Section 2.02
                  of the Guarantee Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary  Agreement
or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   ensure the continuing employment of the engineering
consultants required to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project until the completion thereof;

      (b)   ensure that adequate measures are taken during the

design, construction and operation of the power plant referred to in
Part A of the Project, to comply with the environmental standards of
the Guarantor and the Borrower regarding stack emission, ambient air
quality, water quality, effluent treatment, discharge of water and
noise pollution;

      (c)   ensure that no equipment procured under Part A of the
Project shall use polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB); and

      (d)   develop, on the basis of technical standards
satisfactory to the Bank, procedures for dealing with spills, fire
or other emergency situations and for removal of hazardous
materials.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part
A of the Project and to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound technical,
administrative, financial and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts, including the Special
                  Account, and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals

from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and contracts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditures submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce funds from internal sources equivalent to
not less 20% for FY 1993/94 and not less than 40% for each
succeeding Fiscal Year of the annual average of the Borrower’s
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
Fiscal Year, the preceding Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal
Year.

      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, among others, measures
within its powers to adjust the structure or levels of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations, consumer deposits
                        and consumer contributions in aid of
                        construction, net non-operating income and
                        any reduction in working capital other than
                        cash; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations, including administration,
                        adequate maintenance and taxes and payments
                        in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
                        depreciation and other non-cash operating
                        charges), debt service requirements, all
                        cash dividends and other cash distributions
                        of surplus, increase in working capital
                        other than cash and other cash outflows
                        other than capital expenditures.

(ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)   The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  fiscal year.

           (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year.

            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under circumstances then existing be called for
                  payment within twelve months, including accounts
                  payable, customer advances, debt service require-
                  ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  dividends.

           (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

          (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations.

         (viii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of Rial,
                  debt payable in another currency, such valuation
                  shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other
                  currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                  debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of net revenues to debt service
requirements of not less than 1.5.

      (b)  Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet
the requirements set forth in said paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)  For the purposes of this Section:

(i)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations adjusted to take
                        account of the Borrower’s rates in effect
                        at the time of the incurrence of debt even
                        though they were not in effect during the
                        twelve-month period to which such revenues
                        relate and net non-operating income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations including administration,
                        adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                        depreciation, other non-cash operating
                        charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.

           (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

           (iv)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sink-
                  ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
                  other charges on, debt.

            (v)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of Rials,
                  debt payable in another currency, such valuation
                  shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
                  lawful rate of exchange at which such other
                  currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                  debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.

      Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, not later than the end of FY
1993/94: (a) take all actions required on its part (including, if
necessary), increasing its billing frequency, to ensure (i) that the
amounts remaining outstanding in its accounts receivable for
electricity sale shall not exceed, at any time, the equivalent, on
average, of such sales’ revenues for a three-month period; and (ii)
that the amounts outstanding in its accounts payable for its
purchases of electricity from the Iran Power Generation and
Transmission Company of the Guarantor shall not exceed the
equivalent, on average, of such purchases for a two-month period.

      Section 5.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by
March 20, 1994, a complete revaluation, prepared on the basis of
principles satisfactory to the Bank, of the Borrower’s fixed assets
in operation.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,

that the Borrower has failed, by March 20, 1994, to conclude the
necessary arrangements to secure the suppliers’ credits.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and IPO.

      Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and IPO and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and IPO in accordance with its
terms.

      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Tehran Regional Electricity Company
            Shohada Square
            P.O. Box 17185-1166
            Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  TEHRAN REGIONAL           212817 TREC IR
                    ELECTRICTIY COMPANY
                  TEHRAN, IRAN

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be

signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ C. Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                  TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY

                  By /s/ Mohammed Khazaee
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment and            148,600,000        100% of foreign
    materials (in-                              expenditures
    cluding installa-
    tion work) for
    Part A of the
    Project

(2) Consultants’                                100% of foreign
    services:                                   expenditures

    (a)  for Part A of         9,100,000
         the Project

    (b)  for Part B of         4,300,000
         the Project

(3) Unallocated                3,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               165,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals under Category 2 (a) in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
August 1, 1992.

SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to alleviate power shortage
through the addition and rehabilitation of power generation
capacity, and to initiate studies for further improvements in the
management of the electric power subsector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Power Generation Facilities; Training

1.    Conversion of the power plant at Qom into a combined cycle
(gas oil and natural gas-fired) plant, construction of transmission
lines necessary to connect such plant to the national grid and
installation of operating equipment.

2.    Training of technicians at the Qom Plant referred to in
paragraph 1 above.

Part B:     Studies

      Carrying out by IPO of (1) a comprehensive energy sector
development study, (2) thermal plant rehabilitation study, and (3)
power sector commercialization and privatization study.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*

On each April 1 and October 1

      beginning October 1, 1998
      through April 1, 2010                     6,875,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The commission rate
                                          exppressed as a per-
                                          centage per annum - (see
                                          Section 2.05 of the Loan
                                          Agreement) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
                    under Part A of the Project

Section I:  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Islamic Republic
of Iran may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II:  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of

Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall

reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.