World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3571 MA

                 (Polytechnic Development Project)

                              between

                             MALAYSIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated  April 7, 1993

                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3571 MA

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1993, between MALAYSIA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsis-
      tent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Action Plan" means the action plan referred to in
Section 3.07 of this Agreement;

      (b)   "CFSD" means the Center for Staff Development to be
established or established under Part A.2 of the Project;

      (c)   "DSD" means the Development and Supply Division within
MOE;
      (d)   "HRDF" means the Human Resources Development Fund within
MOHR;

      (e)   "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;

      (f)   "MOHR" means the Ministry of Human Resources of the
Borrower;

      (g)   "NVTC" means the National Vocational Training Council
within MOHR;

      (h)   "Project Polytechnics" means the polytechnics to be
established or established under Part A.1 of the Project and includes
any other polytechnics as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the
Bank;

      (i)   "Staff Development Action Plan" means the staff develop-
ment action plan referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

      (j)   "Staff Development Consultant" means the consultant to
be engaged or engaged by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.05 of
this Agreement;

      (k)   "TAVED" means the Technical and Vocational Education
Division within MOE; and

      (l)   "UTM" means the Borrower’s Universiti Teknologi Malaysia.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and seven million dollars ($107,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to

be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                   on the date immediately preceding each date spe-
                   cified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, begin-
                   ning with the Interest Period in which this
                   Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                   reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                   as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                   borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                   1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                   the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                   be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                   interest rates determined otherwise than as
                   provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                      Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, and C.1-C.3 of
the Project through MOE and Part C.4 of the Project through MOHR with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admi-
nistrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall: (a) in consultation with the
Bank, employ sufficient staff with appropriate skills and qualifica-
tions to adequately maintain and operate the institutes within the
Borrower’s polytechnic system and CFSD; and (b) without limitation
to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, ensure that
all funds necessary to maintain such staff at the said institutes and
CFSD are provided promptly as required.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out a staff development
action plan, agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 3.04 and  Section II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, by October 31, 1993, engage a Staff Development
Consultant, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for
the purpose of providing assistance in carrying out the Staff
Development Action Plan.

      Section 3.06.  Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall carry out,
by March 1, in each year commencing in 1994, a review of the pro-
gress of the Project on the basis of, and in accordance with, key
performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, and provide, by June
1 of each such year, a report concerning the findings of said annual
review to the Bank for its information and comments.

      Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall carry out an action plan for
policy reform and institutional strengthening of the Borrower’s poly-
technic system, agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.08.  The Borrower shall not amend or terminate its
Agreement with UTM, referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agree-
ment, or waive any provision thereof without prior consultation in
this regard with the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-

ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                   in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                   records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are inclu-
                   ded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                   ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                   with the procedures and internal controls in-
                   volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                   to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has acquired the sites required for the
establishment of the Project Polytechnics;

      (b)   the Borrower has completed the reconstruction of its Batu
Pahat polytechnic to the satisfaction of the Bank;

      (c)   the Borrower has entered into an agreement with UTM, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation
of the Staff Development Action Plan; and

      (d)   the Borrower has appointed a Deputy Director in TAVED.

Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister or Deputy Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Treasury
            Jalan Duta
            50592 Kuala Lumpur
            Malaysia

                   Cable address:                Telex:

                         TREASURY                  MA 30242
                         Kuala Lumpur              MA 32369

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                   Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                   Cable address:                Telex:

                         INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                         Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                               MALAYSIA

                               /s/ Dato’ Abdul Majid Mohamed

                               By
                                         Authorized Representative

                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                               /s/ Daniel Ritchie

                               By
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                               East Asia and Pacific

SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works               24,100,000        30%

(2) Equipment and             37,800,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles                                    expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 60% of
                                                other local expen-
                                                ditures for items
                                                procured locally

(3) Furniture                  1,600,000        30%

(4) Books and                  1,600,000        100% of foreign
    instructional                               expenditures, 100%
    materials                                   of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 60% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(5) Training                  15,500,000        100%

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Consultants’
    services

    (a)  under Part
         A.4 of the Project    3,400,000        30%

    (b)  Other than sub-
         category (a) above   23,000,000        80%

         TOTAL               107,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures

prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the poly-
technic system through decentralization; (b) expand the training
capacity of the polytechnic system; (c) increase the efficiency of
the polytechnic system; (d) improve the quality and availability of
staff within the polytechnic system; (e) strengthen the implementa-
tion and management capacity of the DSD and TAVED; (f) strengthen the
capacity of MOHR to operate and maintain the HRDF, and (g) strengthen
the planning and research capacity of the NVTC.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

PART A:

1.    The establishment of three polytechnics at Shah Alam, Penang
and Johor Bahru to create about 13,000 additional training places.

2.    The establishment and maintenance of a Center for Staff Devel-
opment at the Batu Pahat polytechnic to train teachers including
recruitment and training of about 1,000 new teachers and instructors
for the Project Polytechnics.

3.    The provision of equipment and about 12 vehicles, furniture,
books and instructional materials for Parts A.1 and A.2 above.

4.    The provision of civil works and architectural, engineering and
other professional services related thereto for Parts A.1 and A.2
above.

PART B:

      The carrying out of policy reform and institutional strengthen-
ing of the Borrower’s polytechnic system through the implementation
of the Action Plan aimed at providing a wider scope of services,
increased quality of service delivery, better capacity utilization,
and the lowering of unit costs.

PART C:

1.    The provision of technical assistance and training for the
Project Polytechnics and CFSD.

2.    The carrying out of studies for the improvement of the
Borrower’s polytechnic system.

3.    The provision of additional staff to DSD and TAVED and the
provision of training for their staff to strengthen their Project
implementation and management capacity.

4.    The provision of technical assistance and training for the
strengthening of HRDF and NVTC.

                   *             *            *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and
   November 15
   beginning November 15, 1998
   through November 15, 2009               4,460,000

And on May 15, 2010                        4,420,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and civil works, estimated
to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992
(the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to

the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malaysia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$5,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $9,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, items or
groups of items of equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $12,400,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b)   Items or groups of items of equipment and vehicles,
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,800,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

3.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, furniture
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

      (b)   Items or groups of items of furniture, estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quota-
tions obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, books and
instructional materials, shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)   Contracts for books and instructional materials, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000, may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the

Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank
and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.