World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3644 CZ

                          Loan Agreement

                   (Telecommunications Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                         SPT TELECOM, s.p.

                      Dated November 1, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3644 CZ

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SPT TELECOM, s.p.
(the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Czech Republic (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan;

      (C)   the European Investment Bank (EIB) intends to make
loans (the EIB Loans) to the Borrower pursuant to agreements (the
EIB Loan Agreements) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
ECU 65 million to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the EIB Loan Agreements;

      (D)   the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development

(EBRD) intends to make loans (the EBRD Loans) to the Borrower
pursuant to agreements (the EBRD Loan Agreements) in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to ECU 70 million to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the EBRD Loan
Agreements; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "ECU" means European Currency Unit; and

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment

charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

     (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell, transfer, lease or enter into any arrange-
ments for the operation of the microwave transmission equipment
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

(b)The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements), the records
                   and accounts for expenditures under the Project
                   and the records and accounts for the Special
                   Account for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
                   dance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of the 1993, 1994 and 1995 fiscal years, and not
                   later than five months after the end of each

year thereafter (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audit-
                   ed, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than two months after the end
                   of each calendar quarter, beginning with the
                   calendar quarter ending on September 31, 1993, a
                   statement of income and expenses and, beginning
                   with the calendar quarter ending on March 31,
                   1994, a cash flow statement and a balance sheet;
                   and

            (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1993:

            (i)    produce funds from internal sources equivalent
                   to not less than 55% of the annual average of
                   the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or
                   expected to be incurred, for that year, the
                   previous fiscal year and the next following
                   fiscal year; and

            (ii)   maintain for each of its fiscal years a ratio of
                   total operating expenses to total operating
                   revenues not higher than 65%.

      (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not

meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purpose of this Section:

            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                         tions, including administration, adequate
                         maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                         of taxes (excluding provision for depreci-
                         ation and other non-cash operation charg-
                         es), debt service requirements, all dis-
                         tributions of surplus, increases in work-
                         ing capital other than cash and other cash
                         outflows other than capital expenditure.

           (ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   financial year.

           (iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all liabil-
                   ities which will become due and payable or could
                   under the circumstances then existing be called
                   for payment within twelve months, including
                   accounts payable, consumer advances, debt ser-
                   vice requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                   taxes, and dividends.

           (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including sink-
                   ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
                   other charges on, debt.

          (vii)    The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
                   ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.

         (viii)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including admin-
                   istration, adequate maintenance, and provision

for depreciation on the average current gross
                   value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in opera-
                   tion on a basis acceptable to the Bank, but
                   excluding interest and other charges on debt.

           (ix)    The term "total operating revenues" means reve-
                   nues from all sources related to operations.

            (x)    The average current gross value of the
                   Borrower’s fixed assets in operation shall be
                   calculated as one half of the sum of the gross
                   value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in opera-
                   tion at the beginning and at the end of the
                   fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
                   accordance with sound and consistently main-
                   tained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
                   Bank.

           (xi)    Whenever for purposes of this Section it shall
                   be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
                   of the Guarantor, debt payable in another cur-
                   rency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
                   of prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
                   such other currency is, at the time of such
                   valuation, obtainable for the purpose of servic-
                   ing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
                   on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
                   the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immedi-
ately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ending prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever
is greater, shall be at least 2.5 times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purpose of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.

           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                   (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or
                         other instrument providing for such debt
                         or for modification of its terms of pay-
                         ment on the date of such contract, agree-
                         ment or instrument; and

                   (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date
                         the agreement providing for such guarantee
                         has been entered into.

          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations adjusted to take
                         account of the Borrower’s tariffs in
                         effect at the time of the incurrence of
                         debt even though they were not in effect
                         during the twelve-month period to which
                         such revenues relate and net non-operating
                         income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                         tions including administration, adequate

maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                         taxes, but excluding provision for depre-
                         ciation, other non-cash operating charges
                         and interest and other charges on debt.

           (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including sink-
                   ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
                   other charges on, debt.

           (vi)    The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by the Borrower not earlier than six
                   months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                   question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                   accept as reasonable and to which the Bank has
                   notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                   provided that no event has occurred since such
                   notification which has, or may reasonably be
                   expected in the future to have, a material
                   adverse effect on the financial condition or
                   future operating results of the Borrower.

          (vii)    Whenever for purposes of this Section it shall
                   be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
                   of the Guarantor, debt payable in another cur-
                   rency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
                   of prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
                   such other currency is, at the time of such
                   valuation, obtainable for the purpose of servic-
                   ing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
                   on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
                   the Bank.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Borrower’s statutes or any law of the Guarantor
pertaining to the operations of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Bank that:

(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                         or prematuring is not caused by the fail-
                         ure of the Borrower to perform any of its
                         obligations under such agreement; and

                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are avail-
                         able to the Borrower from other sources on
                         terms and conditions consistent with the
                         obligations of the Borrower under this
                         Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB
Loan Agreements have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;

      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EBRD Loan Agreements have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement;

      (c)   the Borrower has furnished the Bank with a satisfactory
financing plan for its development program during the 1993-1995
period; and

      (d) the Guarantor has authorized an adequate increase of the
Borrower’s tariffs and the Borrower has implemented such increase.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The General Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

SPT Telecom, s.p.
            Olsanska 5
            125 03 Praha 3
            Czech Republic

                               Telex:

                                     11440/sptp

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                         SPT TELECOM, s.p.

                         By /s/ J. Makovec
                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods and                 59,000,000        100% of foreign
    related                                     expenditures,
    installation                                100% of local
    services                                    expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants                9,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

(3) Unallocated               12,000,000
                              __________

    TOTAL                     80,000,000

==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s
development program during the 1993-1995 period (Investment Program)
for: (i) digitalization and expansion of the network in order to
reduce congestion on key network elements, to provide modern digital
communications for enterprises, and to provide a sound foundation
for future modernization and expansion of the entire network; and
(ii) to make institutional and policy improvements to the Borrower’s
telecommunications operations.

       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Investment Program

(1)   Construction of an overlay digital long distance network
consisting of:

      (a)   international and transit switching (14,200 trunks) and
transmission facilities;

      (b)   transit exchanges with about 32,000 trunks; and

      (c)   a long distance transmission network with about 3,190 km
of fiber optic cables and multiplex equipment and microwave
transmission equipment.

(2)   Development of a local network consisting of:

      (a)   provision and installation of about 154,000 lines of
switching capacity (analog type) mainly for expansion of existing
analog exchanges;

      (b)   provision and installation of about 384,000 lines of
switching capacity of which about 125,000 lines are to be used for
replacement of obsolete equipment; and

      (c)   provision and installation of about 1,000 km of fiber
optic cables and about 1,900,000 km pairs of copper cables and
subscriber equipment.

(3)     Provision of network management centers, measuring and testing
instruments, training equipment, software tools and miscellaneous
related equipment.

Part B:     Institutional Development Program

(1)   Carrying out of an institutional development program to
strengthen the Borrower in the following areas:

      (a)   corporate and market strategic planning;

      (b)   human resource management and development;

      (c)   accounting and finance capability;

(d)   auditing capability;

      (e)   engineering capability in line with modern technology;
and

      (f)   project planning and execution capability; and the
            provision of technical assistance required therefor.

(2)   Carrying out of a training program to strengthen the finan-
cial, accounting and related skills of the staff of the Borrower.

                            *    *    *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning February 15, 1999
      through   August 15, 2008           4,000,000