World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3526 IND

              (Financial Sector Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated January 21, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3526 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Bank
Indonesia (hereinafter called Bank Indonesia) with the Borrower’s
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Bank Indonesia a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;

      (C) Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by P.T.
(PERSERO) Bank Bumi Daya, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Dagang Negara, P.T.
(PERSERO) Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Negara
Indonesia and P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Rakyat Indonesia (hereinafter
called the Participating Banks) with the Borrower’s assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to P.T.
(PERSERO) Bank Bumi Daya, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Dagang Negara, P.T.

(PERSERO) Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Negara
Indonesia and P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Rakyat Indonesia a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the BI Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and Bank Indonesia, and in
the Participating Banks Project Agreement of even date herewith
amongst the Bank and P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Bumi Daya, P.T. (PERSERO)
Bank Dagang Negara, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia, P.T.
(PERSERO) Bank Negara Indonesia and P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Rakyat
Indonesia;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "BI" means Bank Indonesia, the central bank of the
Borrower, established and operating under Law No. 13 of 1968 of the
Borrower;

      (b)   "P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Bumi Daya" and the acronym "BBD"
mean the limited liability company established and operating
pursuant to its Articles of Association dated July 31, 1992, and
published in the State Gazette No. 73, dated September 11, 1992;

      (c)   "P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Dagang Negara" and the acronym
"BDN" mean the limited liability company established and operating
pursuant to its Articles of Association dated July 31, 1992, and
published in the State Gazette No. 73, dated September 11, 1992;

      (d)   "P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia" and the
acronym "BankExim" mean the limited liability company established
and operating pursuant to its Articles of Association dated July 31,
1992, and published in the State Gazette No. 73, dated September 11,
1992;

      (e)   "P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Negara Indonesia" and the acronym
"BNI" mean the limited liability company established and operating
pursuant to its Articles of Association dated July 31, 1992, and
published in the State Gazette No. 73, dated September 11, 1992;

      (f)   "P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Rakyat Indonesia" and the acronym
"BRI" mean the limited liability company established and operating
pursuant to its Articles of Association dated July 31, 1992, and
published in the State Gazette No. 73, dated September 11, 1992;

      (g)   "Participating Banks" means collectively P.T. (PERSERO)
Bank Bumi Daya, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Dagang Negara, P.T. (PERSERO)
Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia, P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Negara Indonesia,
and P.T. (PERSERO) Bank Rakyat Indonesia; and "Participating Bank"
means any one of them;

      (h)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
or effectively controlled by a Participating Bank or by any one or
more subsidiaries of a Participating Bank or by a Participating Bank
and one or more of its subsidiaries;

(i)   "BI Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Bank Indonesia of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the BI Project Agreement;

      (j)    "Participating Banks Project Agreement" means the
agreement amongst the Bank and BBD, BDN, BankExim, BNI and BRI of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Participating Banks Project Agreement;

      (k)   "BI Financial Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BI pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (l)   "BBD Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BBD pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the BBD
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "BBD Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided to BBD under the BBD Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (m)   "BDN Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BDN pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the BDN
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "BDN Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided to BDN under the BDN Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (n)   "BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BankExim  pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to
the BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "BankExim
Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided to BankExim under the
BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (o)   "BNI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BNI pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the BNI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "BNI Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided to BNI under the BNI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (p)   "BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BRI  pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the BRI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "BRI Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided to BRI under the BRI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (q)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the
Agreements referred to in paragraphs (l) through (p) of this
Section, and the term "Subsidiary Loans" means collectively the
subsidiary loans provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

      (r)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project funded in part out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to such Participating Bank under the respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (s)   "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 2 (b) of the Schedule to the Participating Banks
Project Agreement;

      (t)   "Investment Enterprise" means a private sector
enterprise established and operating in Indonesia engaged in one or
more productive activities in the industrial, agricultural and
service sectors and to which a Participating Bank proposes to make

or has made a Sub-loan;

      (u) "Investment Project" means an on-going or new investment
comprising fixed assets and working capital which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 3 of the Schedule to the
Participating Banks Project Agreement;

      (v)   "BBD Outstanding Funds" means the aggregate principal
amount of the BBD Prior Subsidiary Loans withdrawn and outstanding
on December 31, 1991, March 31, 1993, March 31, 1994 and December
31, 1994; and the term "BBD Prior Subsidiary Loans" means the
subsidiary loans under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into
between the Borrower and BBD pursuant to the provisions of: (1) the
Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 2979-IND (Second
Export Development Project); (2) the Loan Agreement dated December
2, 1988, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes
of Loan No. 3000-IND (Tree Crop Processing Project); (3) the Loan
Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3040-IND (Industrial Restructuring
Project); and (4) the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No.
3041-IND (Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project);

      (x)   "BDN Outstanding Funds" means the aggregate principal
amount of the BDN Prior Subsidiary Loans withdrawn and outstanding
on December 31, 1991, March 31, 1993, March 31, 1994 and December
31, 1994; and the term "BDN Prior Subsidiary Loans" means the
subsidiary loans under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into
between the Borrower and BDN pursuant to the provisions of: (1) the
Loan Agreement dated June 26, 1986, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 2702-IND (Export
Development Project); (2) the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan
No. 2979-IND (Second Export Development Project); (3) the Loan
Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3040-IND (Industrial Restructuring
Project); and (4) the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No.
3041-IND (Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project);

      (y)   "BankExim Outstanding Funds" means the aggregate
principal amount of the BankExim Prior Subsidiary Loans withdrawn
and outstanding on December 31, 1991, March 31, 1993, March 31, 1994
and December 31, 1994; and the term "BankExim Prior Subsidiary
Loans" means the subsidiary loans under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements entered into between the Borrower and BankExim pursuant
to the provisions of: (1) the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan
No. 2979-IND (Second Export Development Project); (2) the Loan
Agreement dated December 2, 1988, entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3000-IND (Tree Crop Processing
Project); (3) the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered into
between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3040-IND
(Industrial Restructuring Project); and (4) the Loan Agreement dated
November 6, 1991, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for
purposes of Loan No. 3402-IND (Agricultural Financing Project);

      (z)   "BNI Outstanding Funds" means the aggregate principal
amount of the BNI Prior Subsidiary Loans withdrawn and outstanding
on December 31, 1991, March 31, 1993, March 31, 1994 and December
31, 1994; and the term "BNI Prior Subsidiary Loans" means the
subsidiary loans under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into
between the Borrower and BNI pursuant to the provisions of: (1) the
Loan Agreement dated June 26, 1986, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 2702-IND (Export
Development Project); (2) the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan
No. 2979-IND (Second Export Development Project); (3) the Loan
Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3040-IND (Industrial Restructuring
Project); (4) the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered into

between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3041-IND
(Small and Medium Industrial Enterprise Project); and (5) the Loan
Agreement dated November 6, 1991, entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3402-IND (Agricultural
Financing Project);

      (aa)  "BRI Outstanding Funds" means the aggregate principal
amount of the BRI Prior Subsidiary Loans withdrawn and outstanding
on December 31, 1991, March 31, 1993, March 31, 1994 and December
31, 1994; and the term "BRI Prior Subsidiary Loans" means the
subsidiary loans under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into
between the Borrower and BRI pursuant to the provisions of: (1) the
Loan Agreement dated June 26, 1986, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 2702-IND (Export
Development Project); (2) the Loan Agreement dated February 6, 1987,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan
No. 2773-IND (Fisheries Support Services Project); (3) the Loan
Agreement dated May 27, 1987, entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 2800-IND (BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit
Project); (4) the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988, entered into
between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 2979-IND
(Second Export Development Project); (5) the Loan Agreement dated
June 1, 1989, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for
purposes of Loan No. 3040-IND (Industrial Restructuring Project);
(6) the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989, entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3041-IND (Small and
Medium Industrial Enterprise Project); and (7) the Loan Agreement
dated August 15, 1990, entered into between the Borrower and the
Bank for purposes of Loan No. 3249-IND (Second BRI/KUPEDES Small
Credit Project);

      (bb) "Liquidity Credits" means BI’s refinancing facilities
provided to banks established and operating in Indonesia to assist
in the financing of the Borrower’s directed credit programs aimed at
promoting specified development activities;

      (cc)  "ADB Loans" means the loans made to the Borrower by the
Asian Development Bank which proceeds have been on-lent by the
Borrower to BBD, BDN, BNI and BRI;

      (dd)  "JapanExim Loans" means the loans made to the Borrower
by the Export-Import Bank of Japan which proceeds have been on-lent
by the Borrower to the Participating Banks;

      (ee)  "NIB Loans" means the loans made to the Borrower by the
Nordic Investment Bank which proceeds have been on-lent by the
Borrower to BBD and BankExim;

      (ff)  "Plan of Actions" means plans, satisfactory to the Bank,
setting forth the actions required to be taken by each Participating
Bank to improve its current financial position and performance,
including annual targets to reduce their classified assets and to
comply with legal lending limits;

      (gg)  "Financing Plans" means the plans setting forth the
amounts required by each Participating Bank on March 31, 1993, March
31, 1994 and December 31, 1994 to have a minimum Capital Adequacy of
8% by December 31, 1994;

      (hh)  "Tier I Capital" means the paid-in capital, disclosed
reserves and profits of each Participating Bank, as such terms are
defined by the Bank for International Settlements;

      (ii)  "Tier II Capital" means revaluation reserves, general
loan loss provisions, hybrid debt capital instruments and
subordinated debt, as such terms are defined by the Bank for
International Settlements;

      (jj)  "Tier I Capital Contributions" means the amounts
provided, or to be provided, by the Borrower to each Participating
Bank as paid-in capital pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d)
and (e) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;

(kk)  "Capital Adequacy" means the ratio of capital to risk
weighted assets of a Participating Bank as set forth in BI’s
Prudential Banking Regulations, and the terms "capital" and "risk
weighted assets" have the meaning set forth by the Bank for
International Settlements;

      (ll)  "BI’s Prudential Banking Regulations" means the
regulations issued by BI as of the date of this Agreement to promote
the soundness and safety of the banking system;

      (mm)  "Banking Legislation" means the Borrowers Act No. 7 of
1992, dated March 25, 1992 and published in the State Gazette No. 31
of 1992;

      (nn)  "Supervision Date" means each of the following dates:
September 30, 1993, September 30, 1994 and June 30, 1995;

      (oo)  "Conversion Date" means each of the following dates:
October 31, 1993, October 31, 1994 and July 31, 1995;

      (pp)  "Project Preparation Advances" means collectively: (1)
the project preparation advance in an amount of $300,000 equivalent
provided by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated September 24, 1990 and September 26, 1990, between the
Borrower and the Bank; and (2) the additional project preparation
advance in an amount of $700,000 equivalent provided by the Bank to
the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 26, 1991
and December 20, 1991, between the Borrower and the Bank; and

      (qq)  "Rupiah" and the acronym "Rp." mean the currency of the
Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred seven million dollars ($307,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, expenditures to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
services required for carrying out Part A of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts paid (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a Participating Bank on
account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-
loan to meet the reasonable cost of civil works, goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

      (b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall
thereupon be canceled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to

time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

              (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

             (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project;
                  Use of the Proceeds of the Loan

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i) cause BI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the BI
Project Agreement all the obligations of BI therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BI to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate central banking,
administrative, financial, technical, economic and managerial
practices; and (ii) cause the Participating Banks to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Participating Banks Project
Agreement their respective obligations thereunder, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable each Participating Bank to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, technical, economic, commercial banking, managerial and
environmental practices.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make available to BI on a grant
basis, out of the proceeds of the Loan, an amount equivalent to
$6,000,000 under a financial agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BI under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include the following:

              (i)  the obligation of BI to use the amount so made
                   available exclusively for purposes of carrying
                   out Part A of the Project;

             (ii)  the obligation of BI to supervise the financial
                   performance of each Participating Bank and its
                   compliance with BI’s Prudential Banking
                   Regulations, and in particular with those
                   Regulations relating to loan loss provisioning
                   and minimum capital adequacy;

            (iii)  the obligation of BI to: (A) supervise the
                   implementation by each of the Participating
                   Banks of its respective Plan of Actions; (B)
                   require that each of the Participating Banks
                   undertakes measures to comply with its
                   respective Plan of Actions; and (C) furnish to
                   the Borrower and the Bank, on each Supervision
                   Date, reports of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested on:
                   (1) the compliance by each of the Participating
                   Banks with its Plan of Actions and BI’s
                   Prudential Banking Regulations, and in
                   particular with those Regulations relating to
                   loan loss provisioning and minimum capital
                   adequacy; and (2) the status of the Financing
                   Plans of each Participating Bank; and

             (iv)  on March 31, 1993, March 31, 1994 and December
                   31, 1994, the obligation of BI to take all such
                   actions as shall be necessary to allow each
                   Participating Bank to comply with its obligation
                   under Section 2.02 (b) (i) of the Participating
                   Banks Project Agreement relating to the
                   inclusion as Tier II Capital of the amounts
                   withdrawn and outstanding of its BI’s Liquidity
                   Credits on such dates as shall have been
                   approved by BI.

(c)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the
Loan to the Participating Banks as set forth in paragraph (i) below
under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each Participating Bank under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include the
following principal terms and conditions:

              (i)  each Subsidiary Loan shall be in an amount
                   equivalent to $60,000,000;

             (ii)  each Subsidiary Loan shall be: (A) an interest-
                   free loan; and (B) to the extent that the amount
                   of each such Subsidiary Loan, or a part thereof,
                   shall have not been converted into Tier I
                   Capital pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
                   Agreement, repayable over 15 years including
                   five years’ grace;

            (iii)  the principal amount of each such Subsidiary
                   Loan repayable by the respective Participating
                   Bank shall be the equivalent in Rupiah of the
                   foreign exchange withdrawn from the Loan Account
                   by the Participating Bank on account of its
                   Subsidiary Loan as of the date of the respective
                   dates of withdrawals; and

             (iv)  the provision by the Borrower of the Tier I
                   Capital Contributions pursuant to Section 3.02
                   of this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Subject to the Bank’s prior approval, which
approval shall be based on the Bank being satisfied that the
respective Participating Bank is in compliance with its Plan of
Actions, and the BI’s Prudential Banking Regulations, and in
particular with those Regulations relating to loan loss provisioning
and capital adequacy, the Borrower shall take all such actions as
shall be necessary to make the following Tier I Capital
Contributions:

      (a)   to BBD:

              (i)  by October 31, 1993, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BBD Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1993; (2) the BBD
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1993; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BBD as of
                   March 31, 1993, of the ADB Loans, the Japan
                   EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.91,000,000,000;

             (ii)  by October 31, 1994, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BBD Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1994; (2) the BBD
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1994 (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BBD as of
                   March 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans, the Japan
                   EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.120,000,000,000;
                   and

            (iii)  by July 31, 1995, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BBD Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of December 31, 1994; (2) the BBD

Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1994; (3)
                   the amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BBD as
                   of December 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans, the
                   Japan EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.91,000,000,000.

      (b) to BDN:

              (i)  by October 31, 1993, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BDN Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1993; (2) the BDN
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1993; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BDN as of
                   March 31, 1993, of the ADB Loans, the Japan
                   EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.33,000,000,000;

             (ii)  by October 31, 1994, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BDN Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1994; (2) the BDN
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1994; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BDN as of
                   March 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans, the Japan
                   EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.67,000,000,000; and

            (iii)  by July 31, 1995, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BDN Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of December 31, 1994; (2) the BDN
                   Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1994; (3)
                   the amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BDN as
                   of December 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans, the
                   Japan EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.34,000,000,000.

      (c)   to BankExim:

              (i)  by October 31, 1993, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BankExim Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1993; (2) the
                   BankExim Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1993;
                   and (3) the amounts withdrawn and outstanding by
                   BankExim as of March 31, 1993, of the Japan
                   EximBank and the NIB Loans;

             (ii)  by October 31, 1994, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BankExim Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1994; (2) the
                   BankExim Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1994;
                   (3) the amounts withdrawn and outstanding by
                   BankExim as of March 31, 1994, of the Japan
                   EximBank and the NIB Loans; and (4) an
                   additional contribution from the Borrower’s own
                   resources in an amount of Rp.38,000,000,000; and

            (iii)  by July 31, 1995, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of

the BankExim Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of December 31, 1994; (2) the
                   BankExim Outstanding Funds as of December 31,
                   1994; and (3) the amounts withdrawn and
                   outstanding by BankExim as of December 31, 1994,
                   of the Japan EximBank and the NIB Loans.

      (d)   to BNI:

            (i)    by October 31, 1993, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BNI Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1993; (2) the BNI
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1993; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BNI as of
                   March 31, 1993, of the ADB Loans and the Japan
                   EximBank; and (4) an additional contribution
                   from the Borrower’s own resources in an amount
                   of Rp.67,000,000,000;

            (ii)   by October 31, 1994, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BNI Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1994 (2) the BNI
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1994; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BNI as of
                   March 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans and the Japan
                   EximBank; and (4) an additional contribution
                   from the Borrower’s own resources in an amount
                   of Rp.115,000,000,000; and

            (iii)  by July 31, 1995, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BNI Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of December 31, 1994; (2) the BNI
                   Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1994; (3)
                   the amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BNI as
                   of December 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans and the
                   Japan EximBank Loans; and (4) an additional
                   contribution from the Borrower’s own resources
                   in an amount of Rp.67,000,000,000.

      (e)   to BRI:

            (i)    by October 31, 1993, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BRI Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1993; (2) the BRI
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1993; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BRI as of
                   March 31, 1993, of the ADB Loans and the Japan
                   EximBank Loans; and (4) an additional
                   contribution from the Borrower’s own resources
                   in an amount of Rp.179,000,000,000;

            (ii)   by October 31, 1994, or such other date as the
                   Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BRI Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of March 31, 1994 (2) the BRI
                   Outstanding Funds as of March 31, 1994; (3) the
                   amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BRI as of
                   March 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans and the Japan
                   EximBank Loans; and (4) an additional
                   contribution from the Borrower’s own resources
                   in an amount of Rp.229,000,000,000; and

            (iii)  by July 31, 1995, or such other date as the

Borrower and the Bank may agree, an aggregate
                   Rupiah amount representing: (1) the amounts of
                   the BRI Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
                   outstanding as of December 31, 1994; (2) the BRI
                   Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1994; (3)
                   the amounts withdrawn and outstanding by BRI as
                   of December 31, 1994, of the ADB Loans and the
                   Japan EximBank Loans; and (4) an additional
                   contribution from the Borrower’s own resources
                   in an amount of Rp.179,000,000,000.

      Section 3.03. If on any of the Supervision Dates the amounts
to be provided to a Participating Bank as Tier I Capital
Contribution pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement plus the
amounts being included by such Participating Bank as Tier II Capital
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) (i) of the
Participating Banks Project Agreement shall be insufficient to
enable compliance with the Financing Plan of such Participating
Bank, the Borrower undertakes to provide to such Participating Bank,
on the respective Conversion Date and as Tier I Capital, additional
funds from the Borrower’s own resources as shall be required to meet
the requirements set forth in such Financing Plan.

      Section 3.04. (a) The on-lending arrangements provided for in
the Loan Agreements dated June 26, 1986, February 6, 1987, May 27,
1987, August 24, 1988, June 1, 1989, June 1, 1989, August 15, 1990,
and November 6, 1991 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank
for Loans No. 2702-IND, 2773-IND, 2800-IND, 2979-IND, 3040-IND,
3041-IND, 3249-IND and 3402-IND, respectively, are hereby amended in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      (b)  To reflect the amendments set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, the Borrower and the respective Participating Bank shall
amend, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements entered into pursuant to the provisions of the Loan
Agreements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.

      (c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreements dated February 23, 1989,
concluded between the Borrower and each of BBD and BankExim pursuant
to the provisions of the Loan Agreement dated December 2, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of Loan
No. 3000-IND (Tree Crop Processing Project) shall be amended to
include in each such Subsidiary Loan Agreement a new Section to
read:

            "Section 2.10. The obligation to repay the amounts of
            the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall
            cease and terminate in respect of the amounts which
            shall have been converted into Tier I Capital pursuant
            to the provisions of Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement
            entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for Loan
            No. 3526-IND (Financial Sector Development Project)".

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
BI Financial Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the BI Financial Agreement or any of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that: (a)
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07, of the
General Conditions (relating to use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, and records and reports, respectively) in respect of Part
A of the Project shall be carried out by BI pursuant to Section 2.04
of the BI Project Agreement; and

      (b) the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records

and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the
Participating Banks pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Participating
Banks Project Agreement.
      Section 3.07. In the financing of future Borrower’s priority
programs whereby any of the Participating Banks will act as
financial intermediary or agent of the Borrower, the Borrower shall
enter into managed-fund basis agreements with such Participating
Bank whereby the Borrower shall assume the entirety of the credit
risk under such financing.

      Section 3.08. Except as otherwise provided for in Sections
3.02 and 3.03 of this Agreement, commencing on January 1, 1995 and
thereafter, the Borrower shall not provide Tier I Capital
Contributions to any of the Participating Banks for future asset
expansion, except to maintain the Borrower’s shareholding
participation in each Participating Bank at a maximum of 51%.

      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause the Participating Banks
to adopt by December 31, 1992,  and, thereafter, implement a
performance criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, for providing annual
bonus payments to the members of the Board of Directors of each
Participating Bank.

      Section 3.10. By not later than March 31, 1994, the Borrower
shall take all such actions as shall be necessary to provide as paid
in-capital to each Participating Bank, the amount of the dividends
paid by each Participating Bank to the Borrower for the fiscal year
1992. For purposes of this Section the term "fiscal year" means the
Participating Banks’ fiscal year.

                            ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   A Participating Bank shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Participating Banks Project Agreement.

      (b)   BI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the BI Project Agreement.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that either a Participating Bank or
BI will be able to perform its respective obligations under the
Participating Banks Project Agreement or the BI Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Articles of Association of any Participating Bank
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
condition of such Participating Bank or its ability to carry out
Parts B and C of the Project or to perform any of its obligations
under the Participating Banks Project Agreement.

      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of a Participating Bank or for the suspension of its operations.

      (f)   The Governing Law of BI shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of BI or its
ability to carry out Part A of the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the BI Project Agreement.

      (g)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BI or for the suspension of its operations.

      (h)   Either the Banking Legislation or any of the BI’s

Prudential Banking Regulations shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project or any Part thereof.

      (i)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to a
Participating Bank having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have became due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the related contractual instru-
ment, or any security for any such loan shall became enforceable.

      (j)   A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by a Participating Bank, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
such Participating Bank’s business or such Participating Bank’s
financial condition or the efficiency of such Participating Bank’s
management and personnel in carrying out the Project.

      (k)   (1)    Subject to subparagraph (2) of this paragraph
                   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, canceled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                   agreement providing therefor.

            (2)    Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (j) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the respective Participating Bank;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and BI;

      (c)   any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g),
(h) or (i) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (d)   the event specified in paragraph (k) (1) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (k) (2) of such Section.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the BI Financial Agreement has been entered into
between the Borrower and BI;

      (b)   that the BBD Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the BDN
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the BankExim Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the BNI Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the BRI Subsidiary Loan

Agreement have been entered into between the Borrower and BBD, BDN,
BankExim, BNI and BRI, respectively; and

      (c)   that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that:

            (i) the Borrower has made available to BBD as Tier I
            Capital an aggregate amount of Rp.315,425,000,000 of
            which an amount of Rp.48,940,000,000 represents BBD
            Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1991;

            (ii) the Borrower has made available to BDN as Tier I
            Capital an aggregate amount of Rp.317,988,000,000 of
            which an amount of Rp.156,471,000,000 represents BDN
            Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1991;

            (iii) the Borrower has made available to BankExim as
            Tier I Capital an aggregate amount of Rp.209,802,000,000
            of which an amount of Rp.50,070,000,000 represents
            BankExim Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1991;

            (iv) the Borrower has made available to BNI as
            Tier I Capital an aggregate amount of Rp.297,708,000,000
            of which an amount of Rp.142,347,000,000 represents BNI
            Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1991; and

            (v) the Borrower has made available to BRI as
            Tier I Capital an aggregate amount of Rp.618,138,000,000
            of which an amount of Rp.391,316,000,000 represents BRI
            Outstanding Funds as of December 31, 1991;

      (d)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.04 of this Agreement have been
amended pursuant to the provisions thereof;

      (e)   that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that the Board of Directors of each
Participating Bank has adopted its respective Plan of Actions, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (f)   that BI has retained the services of at least one credit
expert pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Schedule to
the BI Project Agreement.

      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the BI Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BI and is legally binding upon BI in accordance with
its terms;

      (b)   that the Participating Banks Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by BBD, BDN, BankExim, BNI and BRI, and
is legally binding upon BBD, BDN, BankExim, BNI and BRI in
accordance with its terms;

      (c)   that the BI Financial Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties
thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with
their terms; and

      (d)   that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements provided for
in the Loan Agreements referred to in Section 3.03. (a) of this
Agreement and in paragraph (c) of such Section, have been amended by
the parties thereto in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Section 3.03 (b) and (c) of this Agreement, and that such Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, as so amended, are legally binding upon such
parties in accordance with their terms.

      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINISTRY FINANCE                DEPKEU-IA 44319
                   JAKARTA                         DJMLN-IA 45799

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:          Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of

expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(1)   (a) Technical              5,700,000      100%
      Assistance under
      Part A of the
      Project

      (b) Overseas training        300,000      100%
      under Part A of the
      Project

(2)   Sub-loans                300,000,000
      under Part B of
      the Project:

      (a) Civil Works                           50%

      (b) Goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local expen-
                                                ditures (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 60% of
                                                other locally
                                                procured items

      (c) Services                              100%

(3)   Refunding of               1,000,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (b)
      Advances                                  of this Agreement
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    307,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Category 1 of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in the aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $600,000 may be made for
expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1992; and

      (b) in respect of a Sub-loan:

              (i)  unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance
                   with the procedures and on the terms and
                   conditions set forth or referred to in the
                   Schedule to the Participating Banks Project
                   Agreement;

             (ii)  except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
                   otherwise agree, on account of expenditures by
                   an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-
                   loan subject to the Bank’s approval, unless such
                   expenditures shall have been made not more than
                   ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank

shall have received, in respect of such Sub-
                   loan, the application and information required
                   by paragraph 4 (a) of the Schedule to the
                   Participating Banks Project Agreement or, in
                   respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, not more than
                   ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
                   shall have received, in respect of such free-
                   limit Sub-loan, the request and information
                   required by paragraph 4 (b) of the Schedule to
                   the Participating Banks Project Agreement;
                   provided, however, that withdrawals may be made
                   in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan on account
                   of payments made for expenditures before the
                   above-mentioned ninety days but after March 31,
                   1992, and not to exceed: (A) the aggregate
                   amount of $30,000,000 in respect of all such
                   free-limit Sub-loans made by all Participating
                   Banks, and (B) with respect to each
                   Participating Bank, an aggregate amount of 10%
                   of its Subsidiary Loan provided by the Borrower
                   pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this
                   Agreement;

            (iii)  made or to be made by BBD: (A) after the
                   aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BBD shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1993, BBD is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy; and (B) after
                   the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BBD shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $40,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1994, BBD is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy;

             (iv)  made or to be made by BDN: (A) after the
                   aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BDN shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1993, BDN is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy; and (B) after
                   the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BDN shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $40,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1994, BDN is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy;

              (v)  made or to be made by BankExim: (A) after the
                   aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BankExim shall have reached the
                   equivalent of $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall
                   be satisfied that as of March 31, 1993, BankExim
                   is in compliance with its Plan of Actions and
                   BI’s Prudential Banking Regulations, and in
                   particular with those Regulations relating to

loan loss provisioning and capital adequacy; and
                   (B) after the aggregate amount of the proceeds
                   of the Loan disbursed or committed on account of
                   Sub-loans made by BankExim shall have reached
                   the equivalent of $40,000,000, unless the Bank
                   shall be satisfied that as of March 31, 1994,
                   BankExim is in compliance with its Plan of
                   Actions and BI’s Prudential Banking Regulations,
                   and in particular with those Regulations
                   relating to loan loss provisioning and capital
                   adequacy;

             (vi)  made or to be made by BNI: (A) after the
                   aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BNI shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1993, BNI is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy; and (B) after
                   the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BNI shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $40,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1994, BNI is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy;

            (vii)  made or to be made by BRI: (A) after the
                   aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BRI shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1993, BRI is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy; and (B) after
                   the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan
                   disbursed or committed on account of Sub-loans
                   made by BRI shall have reached the equivalent of
                   $40,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied
                   that as of March 31, 1994, BRI is in compliance
                   with its Plan of Actions and BI’s Prudential
                   Banking Regulations, and in particular with
                   those Regulations relating to loan loss
                   provisioning and capital adequacy; and

            (viii) for an Investment Project in an amount to be
                   financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which
                   shall exceed the sum of $3,000,000 equivalent.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
enhancing the efficiency of resource allocation of the banking
system in Indonesia, through: (a) strengthening prudential banking
regulations, BI’s banking supervision and credit information
systems, and staff skills; and (b) conversion of the Participating
Banks into limited liability companies (PERSEROS), strengthening
their capital bases, and increasing the autonomy of their
managements.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Provision of technical assistance to BI for enhancing
its existing, or establishing new, systems for bank supervision and
credit information, and training of BI staff to effectively
implement these systems.

Part B:     Provision of Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises for the
carrying out of Investment Projects.

Part C:     The carrying out of a program for the recapitalization
of the Participating Banks through Tier I Capital Contributions and
inclusion of Liquidity Credits as Tier II Capital, on the basis of
the Plan of Actions, Financing Plans and BI’s Prudential Banking
Regulations.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

May 15, 1998                               5,600,000
November 15, 1998                          5,815,000
May 15, 1999                               6,040,000
November 15, 1999                          6,275,000
May 15, 2000                               6,515,000
November 15, 2000                          6,765,000
May 15, 2001                               7,030,000
November 15, 2001                          7,300,000
May 15, 2002                               7,585,000
November 15, 2002                          7,875,000
May 15, 2003                               8,180,000
November 15, 2003                          8,495,000
May 15, 2004                               8,825,000
November 15, 2004                          9,165,000
May 15, 2005                               9,520,000
November 15, 2005                          9,890,000
May 15, 2006                              10,270,000
November 15, 2006                         10,665,000
May 15, 2007                              11,080,000
November 15, 2007                         11,510,000
May 15, 2008                              11,950,000
November 15, 2008                         12,415,000
May 15, 2009                              12,895,000
November 15, 2009                         13,390,000
May 15, 2010                              13,910,000
November 15, 2010                         14,450,000
May 15, 2011                              15,005,000
November 15, 2011                         15,585,000
May 15, 2012                              16,190,000
November 15, 2012                         16,810,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Modifications of the General Conditions

      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   The words "or for investment Projects" are added after
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.

      (3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:

            "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
      right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
      of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
      the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of the Schedule to the
      Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
      paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been
      received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or
      having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) at any
      time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any item is
      inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
      the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures
      in respect of such item which would otherwise have been
      eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d)
      after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
      unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may, by notice to
      the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
      such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
      Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
      or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be canceled."

                            SCHEDULE 5

                            Amendments

1.    (a) The acronym "BNI 1946" in the Loan Agreement dated June

26, 1986 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No.
2702-IND) is hereby substituted by "BNI".

      (b) The acronym "BNI 1946" and the acronym "BEII" in the Loan
Agreement dated August 24, 1989 entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank (Loan No. 2979-IND) are hereby substituted by "BNI" and
"BankExim", respectively.

      (c) The acronym "Bank BNI" and the acronym "BEII" in the Loan
Agreement dated June 1, 1989 entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank (Loan No. 3040-IND) are hereby substituted by "BNI" and
"BankExim", respectively.

      (d) The acronym "Bank BNI" and the acronym "BEII" in the Loan
Agreement dated June 1, 1989 entered into between the Borrower and
the Bank (Loan No. 3041-IND) are hereby substituted by "BNI" and
"BankExim", respectively.

      (e) The acronym "Bank BNI" in the Loan Agreement dated
November 6, 1991 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank
(Loan No. 3402-IND) is hereby substituted by "BNI".

2.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 26, 1986,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2702-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(iv) the obligation of BDN to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND." All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

3.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 26, 1986,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2702-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BNI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND". All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

4.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 26, 1986,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2702-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vi) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

5.    Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement dated February 6, 1987,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2773-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(iv) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force

and effect.

6.    Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement dated May 27,1987
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2800-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(iv) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

7.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2979-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BBD to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

8.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2979-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vi) the obligation of BDN to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

9.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2979-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vii) the obligation of BankExim to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

10.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2979-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(viii) the obligation of BNI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

11.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1988,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2979-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(ix) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the

Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

12.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3040-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BBD to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

13.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3040-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vi) the obligation of BDN to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

14.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3040-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vii) the obligation of BankExim to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

15.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3040-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(viii) the obligation of BNI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

16.    Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3040-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(ix) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

17.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3041-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BBD to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

18.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3041-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vi) the obligation of BDN to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

19.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3041-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(vii) the obligation of BNI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

20.   Section 3.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement dated June 1, 1989,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3041-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(viii) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

21.   Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement dated August 15, 1990,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3249-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BRI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower      into Tier I 
Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

22.   Section 3.01 (g) of the Loan Agreement dated November 6, 1991,
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3402-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BankExim to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to

amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.

23. Section 3.01 (g) of the Loan Agreement dated November 6, 1991
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 3402-IND)
is hereby amended by adding a new sub-paragraph to read:

      "(v) the obligation of BNI to repay the amounts of the
      Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding shall be limited to
      amounts which shall have not been converted by the Borrower
      into Tier I Capital Contributions pursuant to the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and
      the Bank for Loan No. 3526-IND."  All the  obligations of the
      Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall remain in full force
      and effect.