World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3494 VE

                          Loan Agreement

                   (Student Loan Reform Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated April 5, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3494 VE

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts A and B.1 of the Project will be carried out by
Fundacion Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (hereinafter "FUNDACION") with
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to FUNDACION the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in this Agreement;

      (C)   Part B.2 of the Project will be carried out by Fundacion
Escuela de Gerencia Social (hereinafter "ESCUELA") with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to ESCUELA the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement;

      WHEREAS the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that the
execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the

Borrower’s Law "Ley Que Autoriza al Ejecutivo Nacional Para la
Contratacion y Ejecucion de Operaciones de Credito Publico Durante
el Ejercicio Fiscal 1994" published in the Borrower’s Official
Gazette, Extraordinary Issue No. 4633 dated September 15, 1993;

      WHEREAS the Borrower has made a representation through its
letters dated May 7, 1992 and May 21, 1992 to the Bank to the effect
that FUNDACION is authorized to make available the proceeds of the
Loan to a fiduciary, under a fiduciary agreement, and the fiduciary
is authorized to charge interest on the funds it will lend under
Part A of the Project at the rate agreed between the Bank and
FUNDACION and to be provided in the Student Loan Regulations (as
hereinafter defined), and the Bank declares that it has relied on
such representation in making the Loan;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and FUNDACION;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Administration Contract" means any of the contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, between FUNDACION and an
agency, acceptable to the Bank, whereby the latter agrees to provide
administration services (including placement of students, academic
monitoring and reporting) in connection with overseas training under
Part A of the Project;

      (b)   "Annual Investment Program" means any of the annual
investment programs referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of the FUNDACION
Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined) and which program has
been approved by the Bank;

      (c)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de Venezuela, the
Borrower’s Central Bank;

      (d)   "Convenio" means each of the agreements to be entered
into between the Fiduciary (as hereinafter defined) and the student
beneficiary, for purposes of providing student loans under Part A of
the Project, all as provided and in accordance with the Student Loan
Regulations (as hereinafter defined);

      (e)   "ESCUELA Charter" means the Borrower’s Decreto 502,
dated October 1, 1989, and published in the Borrower’s Official
Gazette Issue 34.329 dated October 19, 1989;

      (f)   "Fiduciary" means any financial institution or insurance
company, acceptable to the Bank, which is authorized to perform in

the capacity of a fiduciary (fideicomisario) under the Borrower’s
legislation;

      (g)   "Fiduciary Agreement" means the agreement (contrato de
fideicomiso), satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between
FUNDACION and the Fiduciary pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the
FUNDACION Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined);

      (h)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commenc-
ing on January 1 and ending on December 31;

      (i)   "FUNDACION Charter" means the Borrower’s Decreto 1000,
dated July 1, 1975, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
Issue 30.738 dated July 9, 1975;

      (j)   "FUNDACION Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and FUNDACION of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the FUNDACION Project
Agreement;

      (k)   "Implementation Plan" means the plan of activities, and
timetables therefor, setting forth the general frame of reference on
which the Annual Investment Programs (as hereinafter defined) will
be based, in respect of the implementation of Parts B.1 (a) and (b)
and B.2 of the Project, as such plan is included in the letter from
the Bank to FUNDACION of even date herewith;

      (l)   "Legislation" means the Borrower’s Ley de Fideicomisos
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated August 17, 1965,
Issue 496, and any other rules and procedures that govern the
operation of the Fiduciary including its bylaws;

      (m)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the set of indicators of
project performance as set forth in the letter from the Bank to
FUNDACION of even date herewith;

      (n)   "Project Unit" means the administrative unit established
by FUNDACION, through decision of its Junta Directiva on March 25,
1992, as indicated in the letter from FUNDACION to the Bank dated
April 7, 1992, and which administrative unit comprises a project
manager and three assistants;

      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (p)   "Steering Committee" means the committee established by
FUNDACION, through decision of its Junta Directiva on March 25,
1992, as indicated in the letter from FUNDACION to the Bank dated
April 7, 1992, for purposes of overall project coordination and
which committee comprises FUNDACION’s directors of the following
departments: (i) operations; (ii) finance and management; (iii)
computing services; and (iv) internal comptroller;

      (q)   "Student Loan Regulations" means the set of rules and
procedures referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be approved by FUNDACION for purposes
of regulating the provision of student loans under Part A of the
Project, including, inter alia, eligibility criteria for selecting
beneficiaries; predeparture requirements; placement, monitoring and
reporting criteria, participation of the Fiduciary in the making of
the student loans; and terms and conditions of the Convenio’s
collection procedures; as such rules and procedures may be amended
from time to time by agreement between FUNDACION and the Bank; and

      (r)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower, FUNDACION and
ESCUELA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty eight million dollars ($58,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the

principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The President of FUNDACION is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i) cause FUNDACION and ESCUELA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the FUNDACION Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of FUNDACION and
ESCUELA therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FUNDACION and
ESCUELA to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall: (i) make available to FUNDACION, as a
grant, on a timely basis, the proceeds of the Loan, and any
additional funds and resources as required by FUNDACION to carry out
Parts A and B.1 of the Project; and (ii) make available to ESCUELA,
through FUNDACION, as a grant, on a timely basis, the proceeds of
the Loan as required by ESCUELA to carry out Part B.2 of the Project
under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower,
FUNDACION and ESCUELA, such agreement to include, inter alia, the
provisions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and

9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out respective-
ly by FUNDACION pursuant to Section 2.03 of the FUNDACION Project
Agreement and by ESCUELA pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower agrees to participate in the
annual reviews referred to in Section 2.06 of the FUNDACION Project
Agreement and take all necessary action to implement, or to enable
FUNDACION and ESCUELA to implement, any remedial actions the Bank
may request as a result of the referred annual reviews.

      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) exchange views with the Bank on
the results and recommendations of the studies referred to  under
Part B.1 (d) of the Project; (ii) not later than June 30, 1996,
December 31, 1996, and March 31, 1997, formulate and furnish to the
Bank programs or plans of actions, satisfactory to the Bank, based
on the results and recommendations of the studies referred to in
Part B.1 (d) (ii), Part B.1 (d) (i) and Part B.1 (d) (iii) of the
Project, respectively, and the Bank’s comments thereon; and (iii)
implement each of the programs or plans of action referred to in
paragraph (b) (ii) above in a manner and under a timetable satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each Fiscal
                   Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                   including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                   to whether the statements of expenditure submit-
                   ted during such Fiscal Year, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, provided,
however, that in respect of any of the events referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e) below, the Bank may, in its
opinion, restrict the suspension of disbursements of Loan proceeds
in respect to the Part or Parts of the Project, or portion or
portions thereof, affected by the event in question:

      (a)   FUNDACION shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the FUNDACION Project Agreement.

      (b)   ESCUELA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that FUNDACION or ESCUELA will be
able to perform any of their obligations under the FUNDACION Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement, respectively.

      (d)   The FUNDACION Charter or the ESCUELA Charter or the
Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially
and adversely the ability of FUNDACION or ESCUELA or the Fiduciary
to perform any of their obligations under the FUNDACION Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement or the Fiduciary Agreement,
respectively.

      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FUNDACION or ESCUELA or for the suspension of any of their
operations.

      (f)   An Administration Contract shall have been terminated
without the Bank’s consent.

      (g)   the Fiduciary shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Fiduciary Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (d) or
(g) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between
the Borrower and each of FUNDACION and ESCUELA;

      (b)   the Student Loan Regulations have been adopted, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, by FUNDACION; and

      (c)   FUNDACION has entered into the Fiduciary Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General

Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the FUNDACION Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by FUNDACION, and is legally binding upon
FUNDACION, in accordance with each of its terms;

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, FUNDACION and ESCUELA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower, FUNDACION and ESCUELA in accordance with
its terms;

      (c)   that the Student Loan Regulations are valid and legally
binding; and

      (d)   that the Fiduciary Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by FUNDACION and the Fiduciary, and is legally binding upon
FUNDACION and the Fiduciary in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date July 5, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Direccion General
            Sectorial de Finanzas Publicas
            Edificio Norte, Piso 5
            Centro Simon Bolivar
            Caracas 1010, Venezuela

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                                             24215 HDACP

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

By /s/ Victor Rodriguez Cedeno
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods:                     1,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
    (a) Part B.1                                100% of local
        of the                                  expenditures
        Project                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
    (b) Part B.2                 200,000        expenditures for
        of the                                  other items
        Project                                 procured locally

(2) Consultants’
    services
    (including,
    inter alia:
    (i) administra-
    tion services;
    and (ii) auditing
    services requested
    pursuant to this
    agreement and the
    FUNDACION Project
    Agreement)

    (a)  Parts A and B.1       7,000,000        100%
         of the Project

    (b)  Part B.2 of the         350,000        100%
         Project
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Training:

    (a) Part A               45,000,000         100% of foreign
        of the                                  expenditures and
        Project                                 10% of local
                                                expenditures

    (b) Part B.1                 800,000        100% of foreign
        of the                                  expenditures and
        Project                                 10% of local
                                                expenditures

(c) Part B.2                  50,000        100% of foreign
        of the                                  expenditures and
        Project                                 10% of local
                                                expenditures

(4) Unallocated                3,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                58,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "administration services" means services
provided under an Administration Contract.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made on account of
payments made before that date but after April 5, 1993;

      (b)   payments made for expenditures related to overseas
training under Part A of the Project unless FUNDACION has entered
into the respective Administration Contract;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures under Part A of the
Project unless the Fiduciary has entered into a valid and legally
binding Convenio in relation to the respective personnel or
individuals receiving the training; and

      (d)   payments made for expenditures in respect of the Project
unless such expenditures are included in an Annual Investment
Program.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) strengthening and improving FUNDACION’s programs of student
loans; (b) improving the level of professional, technical and
managerial skills in the public and private sectors; and (c)
strengthening policy research on human capital and higher education
matters.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Student Loan Program

1.    Institutionally Sponsored Program

      A program to make loans to selected personnel in the public
and private sectors, under institutional sponsorship, for approxi-
mately 900 student-years of overseas graduate studies and approxi-
mately 1800 student-years of local graduate studies in selected
areas agreed between FUNDACION and the Bank.

2.    Open Loan Program

A program to make loans to selected individuals for approxi-
mately 1200 student-years of overseas graduate studies, 900 student-
years of local graduate studies and 900 student-years of local
undergraduate studies in selected areas agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.

Part B:     Institutional Development

1.    A program to strengthen the capabilities of FUNDACION,
including the acquisition and utilization of equipment and software,
and provision of technical assistance, through: (a) the establish-
ment of a management information system to monitor student progress
and to support the preparation of reports for planning, policy
formulation and the evaluation of institutional performance; (b) the
provision of training to professional, technical and support staff
of FUNDACION in areas such as: (i) human resource development;
(ii) institutional management; (iii) management information systems;
(iv) organization and methods; (c) the carrying out of operational
studies on: (i) quality assessment and classification of graduate
school programs in Venezuela as a basis for an eventual accredita-
tion system; (ii) technical evaluation of screening examinations and
procedures utilized by FUNDACION in student selection; (iii) cost-
benefit analysis of alternative repayment mechanisms; and (iv)
evaluation of the impact of FUNDACION’s program of student loans;
and (d) the carrying out of policy studies on: (i) labor market
analysis; (ii) education policy analysis; and (iii) impact analysis
of vocational and technical education and training on productivity
and industrial development.

2.    A program to strengthen the capabilities of ESCUELA, including
acquisition and utilization of equipment and software, through:
(a) supporting information collection, and exchange between ESCUELA
and similar public training programs and research and information
centers; (b) designing and implementing: (i) targeted training
programs for state and local level managers in the social sectors;
and (ii) new training courses in areas such as public management
techniques, decision making, and social management; (c) developing
curriculum materials for training and reference manuals; and (d)
providing technical assistance to social sector managers and
administrators at the local level.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each April 15 and October 15

      beginning October 15, 1997           2,900,000
      through   April 15, 2007

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40.
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years before            1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Venezuela may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower, FUNDACION and ESCUELA in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower, FUNDACION and ESCUELA shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that

the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)

provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with therelevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

         Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement

1.    FUNDACION shall transfer to ESCUELA the portion of the
proceeds of the Loan required for the carrying out of Part B.2 of
the Project.

2.    ESCUELA shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices and
each Annual Implementation Program and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, services and other resources for Part B.2 of the Project.

3.    ESCUELA shall: (a) comply with the obligations set forth in
Sections 2.03 and 2.04 of the FUNDACION Project Agreement with
regard to Part B.2 of the Project; and (b) take all necessary action
to enable FUNDACION to comply with the provisions in Section 4.01 of
the FUNDACION Project Agreement, and to comply with the provisions
set forth in Article III of said agreement.

4.    ESCUELA shall procure goods and services required for Part B.2
of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.

5.    ESCUELA shall participate in the annual reviews referred to in
Section 2.06 of the FUNDACION Project Agreement and agree to
promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial action as the
Bank shall request to achieve the objectives of the Project or to
carry out efficiently Part B.2 of the Project.

6.    ESCUELA shall prepare and furnish to FUNDACION all the
necessary information to enable FUNDACION to comply with its
obligations set forth in Section 2.05 of the FUNDACION Project
Agreement.

7.    ESCUELA shall maintain an appropriate organizational struc-
ture, functions and staff for the efficient implementation and
supervision of Part B.2 of the Project including a project coordina-
tor, with qualifications, experience and functions acceptable to the
Bank.

8.    FUNDACION shall have the right to suspend transfers to ESCUELA
if ESCUELA fails to comply with any of its obligations.