World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3765 MOR

                              Loan Agreement

              (Second Agriculture Sector Investment Project)

                                  between

                            KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated December 5, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3765 MOR

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1994, between KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)

constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31;

      (b)   "MAMVA" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for
agriculture (Ministere de l’Agriculture et de la Mise en Valeur
Agricole);

      (c)   "Action Program" means, collectively, the Borrower’s
plan of objectives, policies and actions designed to further
the efficiency and sound development of the Borrower’s
agriculture sector, set forth in a letter dated June 3, 1994
from the Borrower to the Bank (the Development Action Plan),
and the matrix of specific measures and the timetable for their
implementation attached thereto;

      (d)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (e)   "FDA" means Fonds de Developpement Agricole, the
agricultural development fund referred to under Parts A.9 and
B.3 of the Project.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred twenty-one
million dollars ($121,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) for amounts
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) on account of
withdrawals made by a beneficiary under a grant made under Part
A.9 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the investment project included in said
Part A.9 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dirhams a special deposit account in its
General Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6

to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October

1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, technical,
agricultural and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,

records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                  such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   a draft regulation introducing a capital grant to
encourage investments from the private sector in milk
collection centers within the framework of the FDA has been
prepared;

      (b)   an environmental screening unit has been established,
satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (c)   instruments for the deregulation of the domestic
marketing system for cereals (except bread wheat) upstream of
the mills have been adopted by the Government Council,
including elimination of licenses and fixed margins for
storage, transport and resale, and freedom for mills to
purchase from any operator.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministere des Finances
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

                                                Telex:

36936
                                                    36715

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                        By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                                Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated              % of
                                 (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed

(1) Civil works                     38,000,000           85%

(2) Goods                           23,000,000           90%

(3) Capital grants                  38,000,000           95%
    under Part A.9
    of the Project

(4) Consultants’                    10,000,000           100%
    services, studies
    and training

(5) Unallocated                     12,000,000
                                   ___________

          TOTAL                    121,000,000
                                   ===========

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,000,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1994.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to support well conceived
public investments in the agriculture sector and the deepening
of complementary reforms in such sector.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:  Investment Program

    Carrying out of the Borrower’s Fiscal Years, 1994, 1995,
1996 and 1997 agricultural investment programs, selected in
accordance with suitable policies and procedures, and
consisting of the following activities:

1.  Delivery of a suitable program of livestock development,
including the provision of: (i) veterinary drugs and materials
for the vaccination campaigns of contagious diseases and
laboratory equipment for the animal health program; (ii)
demonstration materials for the animal nutrition program and
improvement works in the rangelands; and (iii) field
structures, equipment and materials for genetic improvement.

2.  Carrying out of a program to strengthen agricultural
education and training of farmers, laborers and agricultural
entrepreneurs, including the construction of classrooms and
laboratories, and the acquisition of technical materials and
equipment required therefor.

3.  Carrying out of a program of land restructuring and
consolidation, including destoning, construction of access
roads for newly consolidated plots, studies and topographical
services, and provision of computer equipment and mapping
required therefor.

4.  Development and carrying out of programs to improve crop
production and diversification, and promote rainfed
agriculture, including land reclamation and development,
infrastructure development, and programs to promote new
technologies in crop production; and provision of equipment and
materials required for said programs.

5.  Development and carrying out of a plant protection program,
including activities to control rodents, birds, forest pests
and seeds, construction of field structures, programs to
improve labelling and packaging of chemical products, prevent
fraud and train farmers on treatment of migrating pests;
provision of technical equipment required for said programs.

6.  Carrying out of a program for (a) the protection and
conservation of natural forests to prevent deforestation, soil
erosion and desertification, (b) the maintenance of the forest
cover through demarcation of the forest estate, and (c) the
strengthening of Borrower’s institutional capabilities in

forest management, including the construction of fire
prevention structures and the acquisition of communications
devices for forest guards.

7.  Construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of small- and
medium-scale irrigation schemes, including flood repair works.

8.  Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of MAMVA in the areas of sectoral planning and
policy development, including agro-economic studies and
acquisition of technical equipment for the agricultural census.

9.  Carrying out of a program to provide capital grants to
farmers and farming enterprises through FDA, for specific
investments, selected on the basis of guidelines mutually
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, designed to improve
farming techniques applied, and farm technology utilized, by
said farmers and enterprises.

Part B:  Action Program

1.  Implementation of a program of internal and external trade
liberalization in the cereals, meat and milk sub-sectors.

2.  Development and carrying out of a program of measures to
further rationalize MAMVA’s budgetary procedures and strengthen
the monitoring and management of the budget process so as to
ensure the timely implementation of investments, including
training of staff responsible for budget execution and
extension of the computerized monitoring system of contracts
and expenditures to the central directorates of MAMVA.

3.  Implementation of a program of measures to improve the
targeting of FDA, including: the introduction of a capital
grant limit per beneficiary and for each type of investment,
the introduction of a capital grant to encourage the private
sector to invest in milk collection centers under FDA, and the
establishment of a permanent monitoring and evaluation system
of FDA investments.

4.  Development and implementation of a plan to further
strengthen the livestock sector, including measures designed
(i) to increase the number of private veterinarians, and the
participation of producers’ groups, in the cost of disease
control, (ii) to improve  the quality and efficiency of the
genetic improvement system for dairy cattle through increased
farmers’ participation, (iii) to strengthen the quality control
norms for animal production, (iv) to analyze the respective
strengths and weaknesses of different livestock systems, and
(v) to improve the maintenance of pastoral resources.

5.  Implementation of institutional measures to strengthen
agricultural extension and research.

6.  Development and carrying out of measures to enhance forestry
and soil conservation activities through further improvements
in the incentive structure for the rational use of forest
resources, and mobilization of additional resources to manage
and protect the forest cover.

7.  Implementation of measures to increase the efficiency of the
Borrower’s investments in small- and medium-scale irrigation
through the systematic use of appropriate economic, social and
environmental criteria, and the transfer of maintenance to
water user associations developed under the Project.

8.  Development and implementation of a program to eliminate
pesticide contamination and increase the efficiency of crop
protection services through the decentralization of operations.

9.  Development and carrying out of a program to strengthen crop
production, including the definition of standards for

fertilizers and the establishment of a monitoring system
therefor, and the design of a strategy to integrate farm- to-
market road needs for agriculture into the national road
program.

10. Development and implementation of a strategy to
strengthen the land tenure system, recognize property rights to
farmers on collective lands, and clarify relationships under
rural leases.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*

January 1, 2000                                2,290,000
July 1, 2000                                   2,375,000
January 1, 2001                                2,460,000
July 1, 2001                                   2,550,000
January 1, 2002                                2,645,000
July 1, 2002                                   2,740,000
January 1, 2003                                2,840,000
July 1, 2003                                   2,945,000
January 1, 2004                                3,050,000
July 1, 2004                                   3,160,000
January 1, 2005                                3,275,000
July 1, 2005                                   3,395,000
January 1, 2006                                3,520,000
July 1, 2006                                   3,645,000
January 1, 2007                                3,780,000
July 1, 2007                                   3,915,000
January 1, 2008                                4,060,000
July 1, 2008                                   4,205,000
January 1, 2009                                4,360,000
July 1, 2009                                   4,520,000
January 1, 2010                                4,680,000
July 1, 2010                                   4,850,000
January 1, 2011                                5,030,000
July 1, 2011                                   5,210,000
January 1, 2012                                5,400,000
July 1, 2012                                   5,595,000
January 1, 2013                                5,800,000
July 1, 2013                                   6,010,000
January 1, 2014                                6,230,000
July 1, 2014                                   6,465,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan

on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                     0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                     0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                       0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                    0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                    0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                     1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Works and reforestation activities estimated to cost
the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive

bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.   Supplies estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $8,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

4.   Contracts for veterinary drugs may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

5.   Small works in remote areas, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be carried out
under force account.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and each contract
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more
(except for veterinary drugs), the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower

shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

A.  Institutional Arrangements

    MAMVA shall have overall responsibility for implementation,
coordination and supervision of the Project.

B.  Investment Program

1.  Beginning with Fiscal Year 1994, MAMVA shall: (a) not later
than October 31 in each Fiscal Year, prepare and furnish: (i)
for the Bank’s review and comments, MAMVA’s proposed
agricultural investment program for the following Fiscal Year,
together with information on external financing obtained
therefor; and (ii) for the Bank’s review and approval, a
detailed description of activities to be carried out under Part
A of the Project, including, if applicable: (A) a technical and
economic evaluation of the said activities carried out in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) an
environmental assessment satisfactory to the Bank; and (b)
thereafter finalize the agriculture investment program taking
into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon and take all
measures necessary to ensure its prompt implementation.

C.  Action Program

1.  (a)   The Borrower shall: (i) implement the Action Program
with due diligence and efficiency and at all times take all
necessary action to achieve the objectives thereof; and (ii)
prepare and furnish for the Bank’s review and comments not
later than December 31 in each of its Fiscal Years a report, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Action Program.

    (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1995,
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a draft plan
of objectives, policies and actions designed to further the
efficiency and sound development of the Borrower’s agricultural
sector and a timetable for its implementation during Fiscal
Years 1996 and 1997. Said plan shall be finalized during the
review which shall take place before December 31, 1995. During
such review, the tariffs applied by the Borrower on cereals
shall be examined.

    (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, if the Bank shall have reasonably considered as
unsatisfactory the progress made by one or several
Directorate(s) of MAMVA in carrying out the Action Program or
any part thereof, the Bank may withhold further approval of
commitments under its (their) respective Part(s) of the Project

for the following Fiscal Years. The proceeds of the Loan
derived from such withholding could be reallocated to other
Directorate(s). Such withholding may continue until the
relevant Directorate(s) of MAMVA shall have taken remedial
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary to
achieve the objectives of the Project and ensure the successful
implementation of the Action Program.

2.  (a)   The Borrower shall introduce, not later than April 1,
1995, tariffs equivalent on all cereals which shall be lower
than, or equal to, the tariffs equivalent proposed by the
Borrower in its offer to the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT).

    (b)   Starting with April 1, 1996, and for the following
years, the Borrower shall put in place tariffs equivalent for
cereals whose maximum levels shall not exceed 90% of the
tariffs equivalent proposed by the Borrower to GATT for 1995.

    (c)   For each agricultural campaign, the Borrower shall put
into effect a fixed tariff. However, said tariff could be
corrected under certain circumstances such as:

          (i)   dumping;

         (ii)   major fluctuations of exchange rates; and

        (iii)   substantial price reductions on international
                markets.

    The Borrower shall keep the Bank informed of any tariff
change and provide the justification(s) thereof.

3.  The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in
accordance with the Development Action Plan agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank. In particular, the Borrower shall ensure
that all investments financed by FDA under Part B.3 of the
Project meet at least one of the following objectives: (a)
introduction of new technology; (b) promotion of investments
with positive externalities; (c) provision of transitional
means for the Borrower to reduce its contribution to the
investment; and (d) transfer of income to the poorest farmers.

4.  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1995, submit
to Parliament appropriate instruments for the deregulation of
the domestic marketing system for cereals (except bread wheat)
upstream of the mills, including elimination of licenses and
fixed margins for storage, transport and resale, and freedom
for mills to purchase from any operator.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice

will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

    (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.