World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3676 TUN

                           Loan Agreement

                (Private Investment Credit Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

          CREDIT FONCIER ET COMMERCIAL DE TUNISIE (CFCT)

                      Dated February 14, 1994

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3676 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the  CREDIT
FONCIER ET COMMERCIAL DE TUNISIE (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                        General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Action Plan" means the plan of actions and measures
designed to improve the soundness and efficiency of the Borrower,
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and set forth in a
letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank;

      (b)   "ANPE" means the Guarantor’s National Agency for the
Protection of the Environment (Agence Nationale pour la Protection
de l’Environnement) established and operating pursuant to the
Guarantor’s Law No. 88-91 dated August 2, 1988, and the Decree No.
88-1784, dated October 18, 1988, as the same may be amended from
time to time;

      (c)   "Category" means any Category of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Central Bank" means the Guarantor’s Central Bank
(Banque Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to
the Guarantor’s Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958, as the same
may be amended from time to time;

      (e)   "Charter" means the Borrower’s Charter (Statuts) dated
June 5, 1967, pursuant to which the Borrower has been established
and is operating as a deposit banking institution, as the same may
be amended from time to time;

      (f)   "Circular" means Circular (Circulaire) No. 91-24 issued
by the Central Bank on December 17, 1991, setting forth prudential
regulations applicable to banking institutions, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (g)   "Decree 91-362" means the Guarantor’s Decree No. 91-362
dated March 13, 1991, regarding the preparation of environmental
impact assessments;

      (h)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Guarantor’s Fiscal Years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year;

      (i)   "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan (as hereinafter
defined), which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraph 6 (b) of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;

      (j)   "Investment" means an equity investment, other than a
Sub-loan, made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the
proceeds of the Loan in a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter
defined) for the purposes of carrying out an Investment Project (as
hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project;

      (k)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Private Enterprise (as hereinafter
defined) under Part A of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) or Investment;

      (l)   "Private Enterprise" means an enterprise operating in
any sector of the economy, except farming and construction of

housing and land development for housing: (i) in which at least 50%
of the voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or
effectively controlled by a private individual, a partnership of
private individuals, or an enterprise in which not more than 50% of
the stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by a Public Enterprise (as hereinafter defined) or the
Guarantor or any of its political or administrative subdivisions or
agencies; and (ii) to which the Borrower proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan or in which the Borrower proposes to make or has
made an Investment;

      (m)   "Public Enterprise" means: (i) a non-administrative
public institution (�tablissement public n'ayant pas un caract�re
administratif); (ii) an enterprise in which 100% of the stock is
owned by the Guarantor; (iii) an enterprise in which more than 50%
of the stock is owned, individually or jointly, by the Guarantor,
public local communities (collectivit�s publiques locales), public
institutions (�tablissements publics), and enterprises in which 100%
of the stock is owned by the Guarantor; or (iv) an enterprise
included in a list established or to be established by the decree
referred to in Article 9 of the Guarantor's Law No. 89-9, dated
February 1, 1989;

      (n)   "Republic of Tunisia Loan" means a loan in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000)
made available by the Bank to the Guarantor under a loan agreement
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank;

      (o)   "risk-weighted capital ratio" means the Borrower's ratio
of capital to risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items as
the same is defined to the date of this Agreement in the Circular;

      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (q)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Private Enterprise
for the purposes of carrying out an Investment Project under Part A
of the Project.

                             ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seven million dollars ($7,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by
a Private Enterprise under a Sub-loan or Investment to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is
requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Tunisian dinars a special deposit account on
its books on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or

such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
banking standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel in adequate numbers, and in accordance with the Charter,
the Circular, the Action Plan, and the Statement of Policy referred
to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

        Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) implement
the Action Plan with due diligence and efficiency and at all times
take all necessary action to achieve the objectives thereof;
(ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than July 31 in each
of its Fiscal Years, a report satisfactory to the Bank on the
progress achieved in implementing the Action Plan, including
satisfaction of the requirements set forth in Section 4.03 of this
Agreement, and identifying the further measures proposed to be
implemented in the following Fiscal Year; and (iii) implement such
other measures necessary to give effect to the recommendations of
the audit report referred to in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained accounting practices the operations and
financial conditions of the Borrower.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, its accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and records
                   and accounts for the Special Account for each
                   Fiscal Year audited in accordance with sound
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors and in accordance with
                   terms of reference, both acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                   said financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail

as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain for each of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1993, a risk-weighted capital
ratio of not less than 5% calculated in accordance with the
provisions of the Circular.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

        Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain on
its books, in accordance with its normal financial practices and on
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a separate account to which it
shall credit each payment of interest or other charges on, or
repayment of principal under, any Sub-loan, and each payment of
dividends, or recovery of capital under, any Investment, promptly
upon receipt thereof.

      (b)   All amounts so credited to said separate account shall
be utilized by the Borrower, to the extent they are not yet required
to meet the Borrower’s repayment obligations to the Bank under this
Agreement, exclusively to finance additional development projects to
further the development of the Guarantor’s private sector in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not borrow from the Guarantor any amount of the
Republic of Tunisia Loan for purposes of making Sub-loans or
Investments, until and unless the Borrower shall have fully
committed the proceeds of the Loan.

                             ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Charter, the Circular, the Statement of Policy referred to
in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, or the Medium-term Strategy
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
          ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   The Borrower shall have adopted a Statement of Policy
setting forth its lending and investment policy satisfactory to the
Bank;

      (b)   The Borrower shall have approved a Medium-term Strategy,
including limitations on sectoral exposure for its medium and long-
term loan and equity investment portfolios, satisfactory to the
Bank; and

      (c)   The Borrower shall have achieved a risk-weighted capital
ratio of not less than 2.5% calculated in accordance with the
provisions of the Circular.

      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Credit Foncier et Commercial
              de Tunisie
            56, Avenue Farhat Hached
            1000 Tunis

Republic of Tunisia

                                           Telex:

                                              13 930

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                         CREDIT FONCIER ET COMMERCIAL DE TUNISIE

                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Sub-Loans                 6,550,000        100%
     under Part A
     of the Project

(2)  Investments under           350,000        100%
     Part A of the Project

(3)  Consultants’ Services       100,000        100%
     and Training under
     Part B of the Project
                               _________

     TOTAL                     7,000,000
                               =========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan or an
Investment, unless the Sub-loan or Investment, as the case may be,
has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Annex to Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $700,000, may be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1993.
            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the Borrower
in financing such productive facilities and activities as will
contribute to the development of the private sector and the
strengthening of the Private Enterprises’ capability to adapt to an
increasingly competitive environment; and (ii) promote competition
within the financial system.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Provision of Sub-loans and Investments to finance specific
development projects for the establishment, expansion and upgrading
of the productive facilities of Private Enterprises, and to assist
them in strengthening and/or restructuring their organization,
management and operation.

Part B:

      Strengthening of the monitoring and management capabilities of
the Borrower, including the development of a suitable information
system to monitor risk assets, the establishment of criteria and a
warning system to identify problem loans, and the enhancement of the
Borrower’s capacity to prepare enterprise diagnosis.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

August 1, 1998                             165,000
February 1, 1999                           170,000
August 1, 1999                             175,000
February 1, 2000                           185,000
August 1, 2000                             190,000
February 1, 2001                           195,000
August 1, 2001                             205,000
February 1, 2002                           210,000
August 1, 2002                             220,000
February 1, 2003                           230,000
August 1, 2003                             235,000
February 1, 2004                           245,000
August 1, 2004                             255,000
February 1, 2005                           265,000
August 1, 2005                             275,000
February 1, 2006                           285,000
August 1, 2006                             295,000
February 1, 2007                           305,000
August 1, 2007                             315,000
February 1, 2008                           330,000
August 1, 2008                             340,000
February 1, 2009                           355,000
August 1, 2009                             365,000
February 1, 2010                           380,000
August 1, 2010                             395,000
February 1, 2011                           415,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                     0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                     0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                       0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                    0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                     1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                      Implementation Program
1.    The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for purposes of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

2.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   make Sub-loans to and Investments in Private Enterprises
for Investment Projects on the basis of criteria, in accordance with
procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Annex to this Schedule;

      (b)   ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree: (i) the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made by
the Borrower for any one Investment Project shall not exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000; and (ii) the estimated cost of any one
Investment Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $25,000,000
(excluding the cost of land acquisition); and

      (c)   exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

3.    (a)   The Bank and the Borrower shall, not later than eighteen
(18) months after the Effective Date, exchange views on the progress
of the Borrower in carrying out the Action Plan.

      (b)   Two months prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Action Plan, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (c)   If after an exchange of views pursuant to subparagraph
3 (a) above the Bank shall have reasonably considered as un-
satisfactory the progress made by the Borrower in carrying out the
Action Plan, the Bank may withhold the approval of applications or
the authorization of withdrawals for new Sub-loans (including free-
limit Sub-loans) and Investments under subparagraphs 7 (a) and (b)
of the Annex to this Schedule. Such withholding of approvals or

authorizations will continue until the Borrower shall have taken
such remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
necessary to achieve the objectives of the Action Plan.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                   of Sub-loans and Investments

1.    Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Annex shall apply for
the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

2.    Each Sub-loan or Investment shall be made only to a Private
Enterprise which, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank, shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
making the Sub-loan or Investment that the Private Enterprise: (i)
is creditworthy and profitable, and has a sound financial structure;
and (ii) has organization, management, staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its operations, including
the carrying out of the Investment Project.

3.    Each Sub-loan or Investment shall be made only for an
Investment Project which, on the basis of appraisal procedures
carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank,
including, if necessary, the preparation of an environmental impact
assessment approved by ANPE pursuant to the requirements of Decree
91-362 and fulfillment of other applicable requirements determined
by ANPE, is: (i) determined to be technically feasible and
commercially, economically and financially viable; (ii) calculated
to yield a financial rate of return of at least 12% and an economic
rate of return of at least 10%; and (iii) designed in accordance
with appropriate safety, health and environment guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    (a)   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall: (i) be
denominated and the equivalent in Tunisian dinars (determined as of
the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or
payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods
and services for the Investment Project to be carried out under such
Sub-loan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category (1); (ii) have a maturity of
not more than 15 years, including a grace period of not more than 3
years; and (iii) be made on other terms and conditions, including
those relating to interest rate and other charges determined in
accordance with the Borrower’s investment and lending policies and
practices.

        (b)   The amount of each Investment shall: (i) be denominated
and the equivalent in Tunisian dinars (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the amount of the Investment
for the Investment Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2); (ii) be made on
terms and conditions agreed upon on a case-by-case basis by the
Borrower and the Private Enterprise, and in accordance with the
Borrower’s investment and lending policies and practices, including
a divestiture policy satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank
containing a buy-back option for the Private Enterprise to purchase
at any time the Borrower’s equity at its estimated market or
predetermined value; and (iii) be associated with additional capital
investments by the Private Enterprise.

5.    The proceeds of the Loan which may be withdrawn under a Sub-
loan shall not exceed 70% of the cost of each Investment Project.

6.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project

shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received the application and
information required under subparagraph 7 (a) of this Annex in
respect of such Sub-loan or Investment; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the request and information required under
subparagraph 7 (b) of this Annex in respect of such free-limit
Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan
shall be a Sub-loan, other than the first three Sub-loans to be made
by the Borrower, for an Investment Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the
sum of $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for
financing goods and services directly and materially related to such
Investment Project.

7.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Private Enterprise
and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or
Investment, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Private
Enterprise, including its scope of activities and ownership
structure; the Investment Project, including, inter alia, a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, total cost, financing plan, financial rate of
return, economic rate of return, the name of any banking
institutions and financial leasing companies which proposes to
finance the Investment Project, the proposed loan and/or equity
share for each such banking institution and the proposed lease
financing share for each such financial leasing company, financial
ratios (satisfaction of eligibility criteria, or, if such criteria
are not met, indication on the timing for satisfaction thereof), and
an environmental impact assessment, if necessary; and (ii) the terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including interest rate, the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan and grace period, and
collateral, if any.

      (c)   Subject to the provisions of subparagraph 3 (c) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, applications and requests made
pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs 7 (a) and (b) of this
paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31,
1996.

8.    Sub-loans and Investments shall be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Private
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in
the case of any Sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be
appropriate, in the case of any Investment, the right to:

      (a)   require the Private Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with

the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Private Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Private Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Private
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project;

      (f)   require the Private Enterprise to comply with any
requirements and conditions for the protection of the environment as
shall have been determined by ANPE; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Private Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Private
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Borrower.

                           SCHEDULE 5

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works under
Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. In
the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $5,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded: (i) in accordance with established commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) which shall ensure that goods and
works shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods or works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shallnot apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Employment of Consultants

1.    Services for Part A of the Project shall be: (i) retained in
accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank; and (ii) purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as the time of delivery and
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.

2.    (a)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

      (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) above,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior review
or approval of the Bank of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts

nor to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of
firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined
by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.

                          SCHEDULE 6

              Modifications of the General Conditions

      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new paragraph (k) is added to read:

                   "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph 7 (c) of
      the Annex to Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall,
      in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or
      (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
      applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the
      Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right to submit such
      applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
    SCHEDULE 7

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 6 (b) of
the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be
made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof.
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures
only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

        (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this

Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.