World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3852 PH

                              Loan Agreement

               (Women’s Health and Safe Motherhood Project)

                                  between

                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                           Dated April 28, 1995

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3852 PH

      AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank").

      WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of Parts A (3), A (4), A (5), A (7), B (2), B
(3) and D of the Project;

      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement dated January 20, 1995 (the
"ADB Loan Agreement"), the Asian Development Bank (the "ADB")
has agreed to make a concessional loan (the "ADB Loan") to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to thirty-
six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR36,800,00) (equivalent to approximately fifty-four million
dollars ($54,000,000)) to assist in financing Parts A (1), A
(2), A (6), A (7), B (1), B (4) and B (5) of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in the ADB Loan Agreement;

      WHEREAS: (C) The Borrower intends to obtain from the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (the
"AIDAB") a grant (the "AIDAB Grant")in an amount equivalent to
fifteen million one hundred thousand Australian dollars
(AUD15,100,000) (equivalent to approximately ten million five
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($10,550,000)) to assist in
financing Part B (2) of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "AIDAB Grant Agreement") to be
entered into between the Borrower and AIDAB;

WHEREAS: (D) The Borrower intends to obtain from the
European Commission (the "EC") a grant (the "EC Grant") in an
amount equivalent to fifteen million six hundred thousand
European Currency Units (ECU 15,600,000) (equivalent to
approximately thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000)) to assist
in financing Part C of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "EC Grant Agreement") to be entered
into between the Borrower and the EC;

      WHEREAS: (E) The Borrower intends to obtain from the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (the "KfW") a grant (the "KfW
Grant") in an amount equivalent to twenty-four million two
hundred thousand Deutsche Mark (DM 24,200,000) (equivalent to
approximately fourteen million two hundred forty thousand
dollars ($14,240,000)) to assist in financing Parts A (1), A
(2), A (3) (b), A (4) and A (7) of the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the "KfW Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and the
KfW; and

      WHEREAS: (F) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals
            under the Loan would be inconsistent with
            the provisions of Article III, Section 3
            of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a) "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s
Republic Act 7653, dated July 3, 1993;

      (b) "CHCA" means a Comprehensive Health Care Agreement
entered into between the DOH and any LGU (as such terms are
respectively defined in Sub-paragraphs (c) and (e)
hereinafter), describing for a one-year period the health care
programs to be undertaken in such LGU in that year, and the
related cost sharing arrangements between the DOH and such LGU
in respect of such programs;

      (c) "DOH" means the Borrower’s Department of Health,
established pursuant to the  Borrower’s Executive Order No.
119, dated January 30, 1987;

      (d) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which
period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each

calendar year; and the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively,
each of said Fiscal Year;

      (e) "LGU" means each of the Borrower’s Local Government
Units existing under the Borrower’s administrative
organization, and includes any province, city, municipality or
barangay; and the term "LGUs" means, collectively, each of said
LGU;

      (f) "PIA" means Project Implementation Agreement which is
any agreement between the Borrower, acting through the DOH, and
any LGU regarding the implementation and financing arrangements
in relation to the Project, referred to in Sections 3.04 of,
and Paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to, this Agreement; and the term
"PIAs" means, collectively, each of said PIA;

      (g) "PMO" means the Project Management Office referred to
in Sections 3.03 and 6.01 of this Agreement; and

      (h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of eighteen million dollars
($18,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A (3),
A (4), A (5), A (7), B (2), B (3) and D of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through the DOH and concerned LGUs with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, environmental, financial and public health practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through the
DOH, carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall,
through the DOH:

      (a) Prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b) Afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c) Thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall establish within the
DOH, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the
Project, a Project Management Office ("PMO") to be headed by a
qualified Project Manager, assisted by qualified personnel in
adequate numbers.  The PMO shall be responsible for the overall
management, administration and coordination of the day-to-day
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia, the
preparation and consolidation of Project plans and budgets, the
preparation of semi-annual reports referred to in Paragraph 8
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the procurement of all
goods, works and services required for the Project.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, through the DOH,
enter into a PIA with each concerned LGU, which PIA shall form
an integral part of such LGU’s CHCA, which shall set forth,
inter alia, the parties’ respective rights and obligations for
carrying out the Project and an overall cost-sharing
arrangement therefor, as described in Paragraph 6 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.

      (b) Without any restriction or limitation upon any of the
provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise its
rights and comply with its obligations, and shall cause the
LGUs to exercise their rights and comply with their respective
obligations, under their corresponding CHCA and PIA in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the objectives of the Project.

      Section 3.05. Without any restriction or limitation upon
any of the provisions of the General conditions or of this
Agreement: (a) not later than June 30, 1998, or such other date
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall
conduct, on the basis of terms of reference developed in
consultation with the Bank, a comprehensive mid-term review of
the progress achieved to date by the Borrower in implementing
the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter, taking into account
the recommendations of such review, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall
take all remedial measures needed to achieve the objectives
thereof.

      Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for Parts A (3), A (4), A (5), A (7), B (2), B (3) and
D of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A (3), A (4), A
(5), A (7), B (2), B (3) and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower, including the DOH and
concerned LGUs, responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than nine (9) months
                  after the end of each such year, the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to
                  examine such records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,

namely, that:

      (a)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the ADB Loan or the AIDAB
                        Grant or the KfW Grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the agreement therefor, or

                  (B)   the ADB Loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                  for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have established
the PMO and appointed the Project Manager, pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 3.03 of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Republic of the Philippines

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  SECFIN                        40268

Manila                        CB-CONF

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC);
                                          64145 (WUI); or
                                          197688 (TRT).

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                        By /s/ Roberto de Ocampo
                                                Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                Authorized Representative

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1) Civil works                    2,400,000        90%

(2) Goods, including               6,200,000)       100% of foreign
    drugs and reagents                      )       expenditures,
    (except for Part A (4)                  )       100% of local
    of the Project),                        )       expenditures (ex-
    medical supplies,                       )       factory cost) and
    equipment, vehicles,                    )       85% of local
    and furniture                           )       expenditures for
                                            )       other items
                                            )       procured locally
                                            )
(3) Drugs and reagents             3,300,000)

for Part A (4)                          )
    of the Project                          )

(4) Consultants’                   2,700,000        100%
    services, studies
    and training (except
    for Part B (2) of the
    Project)

(5) Consultants’                  2,500,000         100%
    services, studies
    and training for
    Part B (2) of the
    Project

(6) Unallocated                    900,000

          TOTAL                $18,000,000

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

    (b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or (b)
expenditures under Category (3) of the table set forth in
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part
A (4) of the Project, unless the KfW Grant Agreement shall have
become effective; or (c) expenditures under Category (5) of the
table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
in respect of Part B (2) of the Project, unless the AIDAB Grant
Agreement shall have become effective; or (d) expenditures for
contraceptives.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under individual contracts for:  (a) works not exceeding the
equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000); (b)
goods not exceeding the equivalent of two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000); (c) consulting firms not exceeding the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (d)
individual consultants not exceeding the equivalent of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000); all under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The overall objective of the Project is to assist the
Borrower improve the health status of women residing within its
territory, particularly those of reproductive age, by inter
alia: (i) improving the quality and range of women’s health and
safe motherhood services; (ii) strengthening the capacity of
LGUs to manage the provision of such services, and of the DOH
to provide related policy, technical, financial and logistical
support; (iii) enhancing the effectiveness and sustainability
of health interventions through the participation of local
communities and non-governmental organizations; and (iv)
expanding the knowledge base upon which to draw policy and
technical guidance for women’s health programs.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Service Delivery.

1.        Strengthening existing maternal care services of the
DOH and LGUs through the provision, on a nation-wide basis, of:
(a)  micronutrients (iron/folate, iodine and vitamin A) to
pregnant and lactating women; (b) tetanus toxoid immunizations
for pregnant women; (c) about eleven thousand five hundred
(11,500) obstetrical kits for mid-wives; (d) about nine
thousand (9,000) obstetrical kits for traditional birth
attendants; (e) about two million (2,000,000) disposable home
delivery kits for low income women; and (f) emergency
obstetrical drugs and supplies.

2.        Improving the quality and accessibility of first
referral level LGU hospitals and health units through: (a)
upgrading the obstetric facilities of about ninety-two (92)
selected first referral level district hospitals; (b)
renovating about one hundred sixty (160) selected rural health
units; and (c) upgrading about two hundred eighty (280)
selected barangay health stations.

3.        Strengthening the Borrower’s women’s health services
through: (a) upgrading about seventy-two (72) selected rural
health units and seventy-two (72) selected barangay health
stations; and (b) provision, on a nation-wide basis, of
necessary drugs and medical supplies and equipment.

4.        Reducing morbidity and mortality rates due to sexually
and non-sexually transmitted reproductive tract infections and
sexually transmitted diseases, through the provision of
diagnostic, referral and first line treatment services based on
the syndromic approach, as well as the provision of counselling
services.

5.        Reducing the prevalence of cervical cancer through the
provision of: (a) pap smear screening services, cervical
biopsies and cryotherapy and surgical treatments; and (b)
specialized medical equipment and training.

6.        Carrying out of a pilot on the life cycle approach for
the delivery of women’s health services.

7.   Provision of technical assistance services, training and
medical equipment and supplies, including drugs and medicines,
in respect of the activities referred to hereinabove.

Part B: Institutional Development.

1.        Producing, distributing and disseminating, on a nation-
wide basis, an integrated information, education and
communication program, and related materials (including
training videos and research data), for promoting maternal care
and other women’s health services.

2.        Provision of in-service training for first referral
regional and provincial public sector health care workers
responsible for delivering maternal care and other women’s
health services, and the development, piloting and expansion of
distance learning programs.

3.        Strengthening logistics services and capabilities
provided to the Borrower’s public health system, so as to
improve the supply of drugs and medicines, vaccines, reagents
and other medical supplies to health service facilities
throughout the Borrower’s territory, through: (a) provision of
integrated logistics support information and procurement
computerized systems; (b) provision of technical assistance and

training in logistics management and information systems; (c)
contracting of private drug distributors or other commercial
materials handlers, where they prove cost-effective, to deliver
drugs and medicines, vaccines, reagents and other medical
supplies; and (d) rehabilitation or expansion of public
logistics facilities, where private logistics contractors are
unable to cost-effectively meet the requirements, including the
provision of equipment and vehicles, financing of related
operational costs and expenses, constructing or rehabilitating,
as the case may be, and otherwise equipping of about four (4)
DOH central and about seventy-six (76) provincial warehouses,
as well as upgrading of storage and materials handling systems
and inventory facilities.

4.        Strengthening the capacity of the DOH to provide policy
guidance, technical assistance, training and logistical and
financial support for the proper implementation of the
Borrower’s national public health programs.

5.        Strengthening the capabilities of the PMO for
supervising the day-to-day implementation of the Project,
including the provision of technical assistance services and
necessary office equipment, vehicles, supplies and support of
incremental operating costs.

Part C: Community Partnerships.

1.        Strengthening the capabilities of non-governmental
organizations involved in women’s health issues within selected
areas of the Borrower’s territory, and establishing
partnerships, consultative fora and information networks
between the non-governmental organizations, the DOH, the LGUs
and local communities and other advocacy groups involved in
such issues.

2.        Carrying out of community-based initiatives in women’s
health care, family planning education and related information
and communication programs.

Part D: Policy and Operations Research.

1.        Conducting research and carrying out studies to assess
the cost-effectiveness of various service delivery options.

2.        Conducting research on priority issues affecting
women’s health within the Borrower’s territory.

3.        Carrying out of Project-related monitoring and
evaluation studies.

                             *  *  *  *  *  *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

    October 1, 2000                            345,000
    April 1, 2001                              360,000
    October 1, 2001                            370,000
    April 1, 2002                              385,000
    October 1, 2002                            400,000
    April 1, 2003                              410,000

October 1, 2003                            425,000
    April 1, 2004                              440,000
    October 1, 2004                            455,000
    April 1, 2005                              475,000
    October 1, 2005                            490,000
    April 1, 2006                              510,000
    October 1, 2006                            525,000
    April 1, 2007                              545,000
    October 1, 2007                            565,000
    April 1, 2008                              585,000
    October 1, 2008                            605,000
    April 1, 2009                              625,000
    October 1, 2009                            650,000
    April 1, 2010                              670,000
    October 1, 2010                            695,000
    April 1, 2011                              720,000
    October 1, 2011                            745,000
    April 1, 2012                              770,000
    October 1, 2012                            800,000
    April 1, 2013                              825,000
    October 1, 2013                            855,000
    April 1, 2014                              885,000
    October 1, 2014                            920,000
    April 1, 2015                              950,000

_____________________________

*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than eleven
    years before maturity

More than eleven years but not                 0.80
    more than sixteen years
    before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                0.90
    more than eighteen years
    before maturity

More than eighteen years before                1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1.        Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"), and in
accordance with the following procedures:

    (a) When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. In the case of fixed-price contracts, the
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide
for appropriate adjustment of bid price to reflect changes in
the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of
extension.  Such an increase in the bid price shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each
contract made subject to the Bank’s prior review in accordance
with the provisions of Part D.1. of this Section, the Bank’s
prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of
the bid validity period, if the period of extension exceeds
sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid
validity period.

    (b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.        To the extent practicable, items of goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.        Local Competitive Bidding. Contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of four million two hundred
thousand dollars ($4,200,000), and contracts for works, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of four
million three hundred thousand dollars ($4,300,000), may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures and standard bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank.

2.        Shopping. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of two million two hundred thousand dollars

($2,200,000), may be awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

3.        Limited International Bidding and Direct Contracting.
Contracts for specialized medical equipment, drugs and
chemicals, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of one million seven hundred fifty thousand dollars
($1,750,000) may be awarded either: (i) through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from at least three (3) qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof); or (ii)
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

    (a) With respect to (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant
to the provisions of part A.1. hereof, (ii) the first contract
to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof,
and (iii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

    (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two (2) conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.        The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified
for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A (3),
A (4), A (5), A (7), B (2), B (3) and D of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant
Guidelines").

2.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with

such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
consulting individuals estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single sourceselection of firms; (iii) 
assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts
for consulting firms raising the contract value to the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more;
or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
individuals raising the contract value to the equivalent of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

1.  The DOH shall, not later than July 1, 1995, designate the
Undersecretary/Chief of Staff of the DOH as the Project
Director, responsible for the overall supervision of the
Project.

2.  The DOH shall, not later than July 1, 1995, designate the
Assistant Secretary for Special Concerns of the DOH as the
Project Coordinator.

3.  The DOH shall, not later than July 1, 1995, employ and
assign to the PMO a Desk Officer, acceptable to the Bank, who
shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of
activities financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

4.  The DOH shall, not later than July 1, 1995, establish a
Project Steering Committee which shall provide policy guidance
on the implementation of the Project and approve the annual
implementation plans in conjunction with the annual budget.

5.  The DOH shall, not later than July 1, 1995, assign to its
Regional Field Offices responsibility for, in their respective
regions:  (a) coordination of Project implementation; (b)
monitoring of progress in Project performance; (c) assisting in
the collection of documentation to support statements of
expenditures; and (d) preparation of financial statements and
accounts.

6.  The DOH shall execute PIAs with each concerned provincial
and city LGU, as provided under Section 3.04 of this Agreement,
which shall include arrangements for the implementation of the
Project, in particular:  (a) detailed description of the
Project components to be undertaken in each concerned province
or city; (b) financing arrangements for the respective Project
components, including (i) the cost of the resources to be
allocated under the Project and made available to the concerned
LGU on a grant basis, and (ii) the cost of the resources to be
contributed by the concerned LGU; (c) delineation of tasks and
responsibilities of the DOH and the concerned LGU,
respectively, in the implementation of the Project; (d)
undertaking by the concerned provincial LGU to negotiate,
within three months of the execution of its PIA, agreements
with the municipalities located within the concerned province
regarding their respective responsibilities and contributions

under the Project; (e) undertaking by the concerned LGU to
release its health staff to participate in training activities
under the Project; and (f) provision for suspension or
cancellation of the assistance to the concerned LGU in the
event of its failure to comply with its obligations under its
PIA.

7.  Not later than December 31 of each Fiscal Year, beginning in
Fiscal Year 1995, the DOH shall, in consultation with the Bank,
update its Project Implementation Plan, and shall thereafter
promptly carry out such Plan.

8.  Not later than June 30 and December 31 of each Fiscal Year,
beginning in Fiscal Year 1995, the DOH shall furnish to the
Bank semi-annual reports on progress in Project performance.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a) The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b) The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c) The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided,
however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of five
million dollars ($5,000,000).

2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for Eligible
Expenditures during the four (4) months following the date of
each such request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                Expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.

4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a) If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

    (b) If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

    (c) If, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

    (d) Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

6.        (a) If the Bank shall have determined, at any time,
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion

thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.

    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.