World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3859 MAS

                               Loan Agreement

                  (Higher and Technical Education Project)

                                   between

                           REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                                     and

                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT

                           Dated August 7, 1995

                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3859 MAS

                               LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
MAURITIUS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December
8, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustments in the
Borrowerþs higher and technical education sector (hereinafter
called the Program), and declaring the Borrowerþs commitment to
the execution of the Program;

      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3, of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "MOES" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education
and Science;

      (b)   "MPCU" means the Borrower’s Education Sector Master
Plan Coordination Unit within MOES;

      (c)   "TEC" means the Borrower’s Tertiary Education
Commission;

      (d)   "UoM" means the University of Mauritius, established
pursuant to the University of Mauritius Act, of 1991; and

      (e)   "Management Trust Fund" is the fund managed by
representatives of the Borrower and private industry which
coordinates and monitors techniciansþ education in Mauritius
and advises MOES on such matters.

                                 ARTICLE II

                                  The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixteen million dollars
($16,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)    For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                   "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) "Quarter" means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MOES and UoM with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
higher education practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31,
1997, furnish to the Bank for its comments, the draft plan for
the academic integration of the UoM, the Mauritius Institute of
Education, the Mahatma Gandhi Institute and the Mauritius
College of the Air; and (b) by December 31, 1999, complete
implementation of such plan paying due regard to any comments
made by the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) approve a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for cost sharing for all students of
UoM and other tertiary institutions; and (b) thereafter,
implement said plan in accordance with targets and dates
acceptable to the Bank.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                             Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to
                   examine such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                            Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will
be carried out.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                         Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has appointed a full-time manager,
accountant and procurement specialist for the MPCU, all under
terms of reference and with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank;

      (b)   the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the bidding
documents for the items to be procured during the first year of
Project implementation; and

      (c)   the Borrower has introduced a computerized accounting
system, acceptable to the Bank, for the implementation of the
Project.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VII

                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for

the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis
            Mauritius

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                   MINFIN                       4249 EXTERN IW
                   Port Louis

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

            INTBAFRAD                           248423 (RCA)
            Washington, D.C.                     82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                          By /s/ A.P. Neewoor
                                                  Authorized Representative

                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                          By /s/ Andrew Rogerson
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Civil Works:                                 25%

      (a)  for Part A of       820,000

the Project

      (b)  for Part B of       480,000
           the Project

 (2)  Equipment                                    70%
      and furniture:

      (a)  for Part A of       1,800,000
           the Project

      (b)  for Part B of       1,300,000
           the Project

 (3)  Training, studies                            70%
      and research:

      (a)  for Part A of       6,000,000
           the Project

      (b)  for Part B of       200,000
           the Project

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(4)   Consultants’ services:                       70%

      (a)  for Part A of       1,900,000
           the Project

      (b)  for Part B of       500,000
           the Project

(5)   Books:                                       70%

      (a)  for Part A of       1,400,000
           the Project

      (b)  for Part B of       100,000
           the Project

(6)   Unallocated                1,500,000
                                __________
           TOTAL                16,000,000
                                ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) through (4) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after December 1, 1994.

3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and works not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent and services not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                 SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to support the
Borrower’s program for higher and polytechnic education, which
aims at producing the human resources required to support a

more competitive economy.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:      Strengthening the University of Mauritius

1.    Upgrading quality through the provision of better trained
faculty and the improvement of facilities, including libraries
and laboratories.

2.    Improvement of standards through accreditation and
twinning arrangements.

3.    Increasing the interaction between UoM and private sector
employers through promotion of faculty membersþ participation
in private sector research, consultation and advisory services.

4.    Establishment of centers of excellence in research and
development, in areas where the Borrower has a comparative
advantage.

Part B:      Rationalizing Polytechnic Education

1.    Strengthening policy analysis and management capacity of
the Management Trust Fund including establishment of a
management information system linking the polytechnics,
provision of equipment, and technical advisory services.

2.    Improvement of the quality of faculty, curricula and
facilities at the Polytechnics through, (a) provision of
technical expertise; (b) rehabilitation and expansion of
facilities; (c) development of admission examinations and
selection criteria; (d) establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system to follow studentsþ progress; and (e)
incentives for teachers to: (i) take sabbatical leaves or
internships in private sector; (ii) undertake consultancy
services and (iii) engage in joint university/industry research
or development projects.

3.    Development of key non-engineering programs, including
accounting and business.

4.    Strengthening interaction between the polytechnics and the
private sector through, implementation of joint research and
development projects, and exchange of expertise.

                              * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
2000.

                                 SCHEDULE 3

                            Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15
      beginning December 15, 2000
      through December 15, 2009                        800,000

and on June 15, 2010                                   800,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                           Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                                      The interest rate (expressed
                                      as a percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan on
                                      the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:

Not more than three years                              0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                              0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                                0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                             0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                              1.00
      maturity

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                    Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, works and goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of

the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract.  The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension.  Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.  With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bankþs prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bankþs prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period of extension
exceeds sixty days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the
bid validity period.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Mauritius may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items for equipment, teaching
materials, computers, furniture and books estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000 for goods and $500,000 for books,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

       (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the

Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts: (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                 SCHEDULE 5

                           Implementation Program

1.    (a)   MPCU shall be responsible for the overall
implementation of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain MPCU, until
completion of the Project.

      (c)   The Borrower shall appoint and maintain until
completion of the Project, a full-time manager to assist the
Head of the MCPU with the day-to-day management of the Project.
The manager shall be assisted by an accountant and a
procurement specialist.

2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with targets for key
monitoring indicators, acceptable to the Bank.

3.    MPCU, working in close collaboration with UoM, TEC and the
Management Trust Fund shall undertake the following:

      (a)   consolidate annual work programs, budgets,
procurement schedules, to be furnished to the Bank and other
concerned parties for review; (b) prepare semiannual progress
reports; (c) prepare the annual and mid-term review; (d)
maintain the Project accounts and prepare withdrawal
applications; (e) prepare for the annual audit; and (f) prepare
bidding documents and carry out the procurement process. In
addition, the MPCU will monitor performance indicators for the
implementation of the Project.

4.    For each Part of the Project, a Component Coordinator
shall be retained to oversee technical, as well as,
implementation-related matters. The Coordinator shall be
assisted by a Component Manager for the day-to-day management
of the respective part of the Project. The Component Manager
concerned, shall be responsible for the following tasks: (a)

preparation of annual work programs, budgets and procurement
plans; (b) implementation of the agreed annual work programs;
and (c) preparation of specifications and lists for needed
equipment, materials and books. The Component Coordinators
shall be responsible for transmitting this information to the
MPCU for consolidation.

5.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than May in each year,
commencing in 1996, carry out jointly with the Bank annual
reviews of Project implementation; and (b) furnish to the Bank
for review and comment not later than April in each year,
commencing in 1996: (i) a statement of Project achievements;
(ii) actual expenditures for the on-going fiscal year; and
(iii) a work plan and projected expenditures for the following
year.

6.    (a)   The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1997,
carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review. Such review
shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress in the
implementation of the Education Sector Master Plan and the
Project; (ii) constraints and bottlenecks related to the
adequacy of policies and the regulatory framework; (iii) the
adequacy of the Borrowerþs action plan for sustainable
financial arrangements in the higher and technical education
subsector; (iv) progress in the upgrading of staff and
facilities; (v) development of a viable postgraduate education
and research program; (vi) improvement of links with employers;
(vii) the strengthening of the role and functioning of the
Management Trust Fund; (viii) the establishment of a computer
engineering program for the Rose Hill Polytechnic; and (ix) the
expansion of facilities at the New Ramphul Polytechnic.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, three months before such review,
prepare and furnish to the Bank reports, in scope and detail
satisfactory to the Bank, needed to undertake the review,
including the preparation of a program of action, to deal with
deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such
review.

      (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
further implementation of the Project and the Program, and
shall thereafter implement such action plan.