World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3808 PAK

                              Loan Agreement

          (Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project)

                                  between

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated January 30, 1995

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3808 PAK

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1995, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by the
State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) and Parts B.2 and B.5 of the
Project will be carried out, and Parts B.3, B.4 and B.6 of the
Project will be administered, by the Bankers Equity Limited
(BEL) all with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SBP and BEL a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement;

      (C)   the Bank has received a letter dated September 28,
1994 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve a deepening and
expansion of the financial sector of the Borrower’s economy
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the
execution of the Program; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
SBP and BEL;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:

      (a)   "PFIs" mean collectively the Participating Financial
Institutions under the Project, being financial institutions
which shall have satisfied the eligibility criteria set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and "PFI" means
each and any of the Participating Financial Institutions
individually;

      (b)   "BEL" means the Bankers Equity Limited, a company
incorporated and existing under the Borrower’s Companies
Ordinance of 1984, as amended from time to time, or any
successor thereto;

      (c)   "Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BEL pursuant to Section
3.01(c)(iii) of this Agreement and providing, inter alia, for
the matters referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 of Schedule
9 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

      (d)   "Administrator" means BEL acting in its capacity as
administrator on behalf of the Borrower of Parts A, B.3, B.4
and B.6 of the Project pursuant to the Administration
Agreement;

      (e)   "AU" means the Administrative Unit referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 to this Agreement;

      (f)   "Participation Agreements" mean collectively the
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and PFIs
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time;

      (g)   "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan, being the
Borrower’s central bank established and existing under the
Borrower’s State Bank Act of 1956, as the same may be amended
from time to time, or any successor thereto;

      (h)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SBP pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c)(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (i)   "CLA" means the Borrower’s Corporate Law Authority
established and existing under the Borrower’s Companies
Ordinance of 1984, as the same may be amended from time to
time, or any successor thereto;

(j)   "CI" means the Borrower’s Controller of Insurance or
any successor thereto;

      (k)   "PC" means the Borrower’s Privatization Commission
established and existing under the Borrower’s Gazette
Notification No. F.5(1)-Adm.-I/91, dated January 22, 1991, as
the same may be amended from time to time, or any successor
thereto;

      (l)   "FIs" mean collectively financial institutions;

      (m)   "NBFIs" mean collectively non-bank financial
institutions;

      (n)   "DFIs" mean collectively Development Finance
Institutions;

      (o)   "NCBs" mean collectively Nationalized Commercial
Banks;

      (p)   "SLIC" means the State Life Insurance Corporation of
Pakistan;

      (q)   "PIC" means the Pakistan Insurance Corporation;

      (r)   "NIT" means the National Investment Trust;

      (s)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a PFI out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;

      (t)   "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;

      (u)   "Lease Investment" means an investment in the form of
lease financing, other than a Sub-loan, made or proposed to be
made by a PFI out of the proceeds of the Loan in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;

      (v)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
a PFI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made a Lease Investment;

      (w)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Lease Investment;

      (x)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and SBP and BEL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (y)   "Special Accounts" mean collectively the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section
2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement; and "Special Account" means
each and any such account individually;.

      (z)   "Task Force" means the task force established by the
Borrower pursuant to Gazette Notification No. Dy.1031.AII dated
April 18, 1994 to examine proposals for, and recommend, reforms
to improve the legal and judicial environment for debt
recovery;

      (aa)  "T-bill" means Treasury bill;

      (bb)  "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;

      (cc)  "DM" means Deutsche Marks, being the currency of
Germany;

(dd)  "Yen" means the currency of Japan; and

      (ee)  "FY" or "fiscal year" means the period from July 1
through June 30.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two hundred sixteen million
dollars ($216,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan
or Lease Investment to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; and (iii) for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of the services of the Administrator and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, cause SBP and BEL to open and maintain in dollars
special deposit accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this

Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
      Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on July 15 and January 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project;

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:

            (i)   carry out or cause to be carried out Parts A,
                  B.3, B.4 and B.6 of the Project with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial
                  practices, and shall provide, promptly as
                  needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                  other resources required for such Parts of the
                  Project; and

           (ii)   without any limitation or restriction upon any
                  of its other obligations under the Loan
                  Agreement, shall cause SBP and BEL to perform
                  in accordance with the provisions of the
                  Project Agreement all the obligations of SBP
                  and BEL therein set forth, shall take or cause

to be taken all action, including the provision
                  of funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
                  SBP and BEL to perform such obligations, and
                  shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                  which would prevent or interfere with such
                  performance.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or
cause to be carried out Parts A, B.3, B.4 and B.6 of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 9 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) retain out of the proceeds of
the Loan an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 for payment as an
advance on the Administrator’s fee pursuant to paragraph 2 of
Schedule 9 to this Agreement; (ii) for purposes of Part A of
the Project, relend out of the proceeds of the Loan to PFIs an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000,000 on a first-come
first-serve basis under participation agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower (acting through the Administrator)
and PFIs under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank including those set forth in Schedules 5
and 6 to this Agreement; and (iii) for purposes of Part B of
the Project, make the remainder of the proceeds of the Loan
available as grants to SBP for its use under a subsidiary grant
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SBP, and
to BEL for its own use and for use by it as the Administrator
for the benefit of CLA, CI and PC under an administration
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BEL, all
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Participation Agreements, under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement
and under the Administration Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any of the Participation Agreements or the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or the Administration Agreement or
any provisions thereof.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans and Lease Investments
will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, on two
occasions, the first arising after Sub-loans and Lease
Investments which have been approved or for which withdrawals
have been authorized by the Bank shall have reached an
aggregate amount equivalent to $65,000,000 or one year after
the Effective Date (whichever occurs first), and the other
arising two years after the Effective Date, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 8 to this Agreement, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

(c)   If, after any such exchange of views, the Bank shall
have given notice to the Borrower that it is not satisfied: (i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program, and, to the extent relevant (ii) that the
actions specified in Schedule 8 to this Agreement have been
taken, the Bank may (A) refuse to approve fresh applications or
authorize fresh withdrawals under paragraphs 3 (a) and 3 (b) of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement until the Borrower can demonstrate
to the Bank that progress has been achieved and actions have
been taken satisfactory to the Bank, and (B) by further notice
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan not
required for Sub-loans and Lease Investments which have already
been approved or for which withdrawals have already been
authorized by the Bank, if, within 90 days of the first notice,
the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part B.1 of the Project shall be carried out by SBP,
and in respect of Parts B.2 and B.5 of the Project shall be
carried out by BEL, all pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                ARTICLE IV

                       Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof; and

      (b)   cause each PFI to maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and
of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the PFI.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  Section 4.01 of this Agreement and each PFI’s
                  accounts and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year
                  audited in accordance with sound auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                  said financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning the said records, accounts and
                  financial statements and the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                  this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                  such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps
satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to enable each
PFI, and shall cause each PFI, to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including the currency of the Borrower) used in
its operations.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall adhere to its policy of
requiring all wholly- or partially-state-owned, or state-
controlled, financial institutions to be operated along
commercial lines, with full managerial and operational
autonomy.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

(a)   A situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.

      (b)   SBP and/or BEL shall have failed to perform any of
their obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that SBP and/or BEL
will be able to perform their obligations under the Project
Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower’s State Bank Act of 1956 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of SBP to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of SBP and/or BEL or for the suspension of
their operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   the Administration Agreement has been signed and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof have been
fulfilled;

      (b)   the AU has been established, a banking/credit manager
and environment specialists have been appointed to it and
operational policies and procedures have been developed for it,
all as referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 to this
Agreement;

      (c)   the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been signed and
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof have been
fulfilled;

      (d)   a Participation Agreement with at least one PFI has
been signed and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
thereof have been fulfilled;

      (e)   the consultants required for purposes of Parts B.5
and B.6 of the Project have been appointed in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
and

      (f)   a time-table, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
established for the privatization of one NCB, and all such
actions have been taken as have fallen due under such time-
table before the Effective Date.

Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SBP and BEL, and is legally binding upon SBP and
BEL in accordance with its terms;

      (b)   that the Participation Agreement or Agreements signed
pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the relevant PFI or
PFIs and are legally binding upon the Borrower and such PFI or
PFIs in accordance with their terms; and

      (c)   that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the
Administration Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and SBP and the Borrower and BEL, respectively,
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and SBP and the
Borrower and BEL, respectively, in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs and Statistics Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer
of that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

          Economic Affairs and Statistics Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan

          Cable address:                Telex:

                ECONOMIC                   ECDIV-O5-634

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                               64l45 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                                                Authorized Representative

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans and
    Lease
    Investments:

    Equipment and                200,000,000         100% of foreign
    materials                                        expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures (ex-
                                                     factory cost) and
                                                     75% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items pro-
                                                     cured locally

(2) Items under Part
    B of the Project:

    (a) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
        materials for:                              expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
        (i)  SBP                   2,148,000        expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost)
       (ii)  BEL                      50,000        and 75% of local
                                                    expenditures for
      (iii)  CLA                   1,000,000        other items
                                                    procured locally
       (iv)  CI                      500,000

        (v)  PC                         --

                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

    (b) Consultants’                                  100%
        services and
        training for:

        (i)  SBP                   3,205,000

(ii)  BEL                   2,002,000

      (iii)  CLA                   1,370,000

       (iv)  CI                    1,625,000

        (v)  PC                    1,400,000

     (c)  Unallocated              1,700,000

(3)  Administrator’s
     fee                           1,000,000         100%
                                 ___________

      TOTAL                      216,000,000
                                 ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan or Lease Investment unless
the Sub-loan or Lease Investment has been made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (b)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;

      (c)   in respect of payments made for expenditures for
items to be financed under Categories (2) (a) (i) and (2) (b)
(i), unless and until the consultants required for purposes of
Parts B.1(a) and (e) of the Project have been appointed in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement;

      (d)   in respect of payments made for expenditures for
items to be financed under Categories (2) (a)(iii) and (2)
(b)(iii), unless and until Part B.3(a) of the Project has been
carried out to the Bank’s satisfaction and the consultants
required for purposes of Parts B.3(a) and B.3(c) of the Project
have been appointed in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and

      (e)   in respect of payments made for expenditures for
items to be financed under Categories (2) (a) (iv) and (2) (b)
(iv) unless and until Parts B.4(a) and (e) of the Project have
been carried out to the Bank’s satisfaction and the consultants
required for purposes of Parts B.4 (b), (c) and (d) of the
Project have been appointed in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent; and (b) for consultants’ services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent in the case of
firms, and $50,000 equivalent, in the case of individuals, all
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in (i) implementing the Program and, to that end, in
particular, in: (a) supporting the continuing development of
the prudential regulatory framework for the financial sector;
(b) improving the legal environment for debt recovery; (c)
strengthening bank and non-bank financial institutions; (d)
reducing the amount of available concessional financing; (e)
developing a private sector market in foreign exchange cover;
(f) improving the management of monetary instruments so as to
eliminate inter-sectoral and inter-institutional distortions;
(g) strengthening the payments system; (h) improving the
regulatory framework for, and the performance of, securities
and insurance markets; (i) privatizing and/or restructuring
banks, development finance institutions and insurance
companies; and (j) strengthening the capacity of financial
institutions to deliver financial services; and (ii) financing
such productive facilities and resources in the territories of
the Borrower as will contribute to the economic and social
development of those territories.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Investment Projects

      The financing of specific development projects through
Sub-loans and Lease Investments made by the Participating
Financial Institutions.

Part B:     Institutional Development and Policy Support

1.    Strengthening of SBP, inter alia, through improvements in
its: (a) off-site supervision techniques and on-site
examination capabilities; (b) computer capacity for its credit
information bureau; (c) capacity to manage and operate the
payments system; (d) management and staffing arrangements; (e)
information systems; and (f) library facilities.

2.    Strengthening of BEL, inter alia, through: (a) the
establishment of staff capability in environmental assessment
and monitoring; (b) the adoption of measures to promote more
effective project administration; and (c) the carrying out of
a term lending study.

3.    Strengthening of CLA, inter alia, through: (a) the
establishment of a separate wing, headed by a Member, for
securities law and regulations; (b) the development of
regulatory regimes for licensing of securities market
participants, insider trading and investor protection funds;
(c) the preparation of an information technology strategy and
provision of hardware and software for the securities
regulatory wing; (d) the development of staff capability in
monitoring for insider trading and regulating new markets; and
(e) the development of an over-the-counter or small
capitalization exchange.

4.    Strengthening of the office of CI, inter alia, through:
(a) the effective operation of a professionally staffed and
adequately remunerated Insurance Advisory Board; (b) the
preparation of proposals for insurance law reform; (c) the
evaluation of the Borrower’s State Life Insurance Corporation
of Pakistan (SLIC) and Pakistan Insurance Corporation (PIC) for
possible restructuring; (d) the introduction of reforms in such
areas as minimum capital requirement for insurance business,
compulsory reinsurance with PIC and PIC’s right of first
refusal, closing down of companies, rate setting, and

investment rules governing life insurance company holdings of
private sector debt and equity; and (e) the making of
arrangements for the provision of adequate budgetary support.

5.    Carrying out with respect to DFIs of: (a) institution-
specific strategy studies to facilitate their privatization
process; and (b) a sector-wide study of systemic problems
relating to loan administration and portfolio management
relevant to term lending.

6.    Facilitating the work of PC through the carrying out of:
(a) institution-building activities; (b) an evaluation of NCBs
with a view to their privatization; and (c) an actuarial
valuation and an options study with a view to restructuring
SLIC.

                               *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                                 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*

July 15, 2000                                         4,150,000
January 15, 2001                                      4,295,000
July 15, 2001                                         4,450,000
January 15, 2002                                      4,610,000
July 15, 2002                                         4,770,000
January 15, 2003                                      4,940,000
July 15, 2003                                         5,115,000
January 15, 2004                                      5,300,000
July 15, 2004                                         5,485,000
January 15, 2005                                      5,680,000
July 15, 2005                                         5,880,000
January 15, 2006                                      6,090,000
July 15, 2006                                         6,305,000
January 15, 2007                                      6,530,000
July 15, 2007                                         6,765,000
January 15, 2008                                      7,005,000
July 15, 2008                                         7,250,000
January 15, 2009                                      7,510,000
July 15, 2009                                         7,775,000
January 15, 2010                                      8,050,000
July 15, 2010                                         8,340,000
January 15, 2011                                      8,635,000
July 15, 2011                                         8,940,000
January 15, 2012                                      9,255,000
July 15, 2012                                         9,585,000
January 15, 2013                                      9,925,000
July 15, 2013                                        10,280,000
January 15, 2014                                     10,645,000
July 15, 2014                                        11,020,000
January 15, 2015                                     11,420,000

____________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                  Modifications of the General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set
forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 4 (c)
      of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
      respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of
      said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications
      or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
      the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to
      submit such applications or requests or to make
      withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
      with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
      the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the
      Loan shall be cancelled."

                                SCHEDULE 5

                 Eligibility of, and Terms and Conditions
                  for Relending of Loan Proceeds to, PFIs

A.    Eligibility Criteria

1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each PFI shall
satisfy the following criteria in order to be eligible to
participate under the Project:

      (a)   it shall have had a profitable operation for at least
two full years of operation preceding its application for
participation and this fact shall have been attested to by
unqualified audit reports prepared by independent private
auditors acceptable to the Bank;

      (b)   it shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Bank that it is carrying on its operations and conducting its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, commercial and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers and that, in particular, it has adequate technical,
financial and administrative capacity to undertake term lending
or lease financing, as the case may be, including an
organizational structure for appraising and supervising
projects for such lending or financing;

      (c)   it shall have complied with all prudential
regulations of SBP;

      (d)   without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under (a) through (c) above, it shall have
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) it
conducts portfolio audits, to the extent necessary, to properly
classify and account for problem loans or overdue rentals, as
the case may be, in accordance with SBP’s guidelines for
commercial banks; (ii) with respect to the most recent annual
accounts, it has made provision for bad debts or overdue
rentals, as the case may be, and suspended interest or rental
income, as the case may be, and issued an annual audit report,
all in accordance with SBP’s prudential regulations for
commercial banks; (iii) except in the case of a PFI engaged in
lease financing, it meets a capital adequacy requirement of at
least 4% of risk-adjusted assets after fully providing for bad
debts and suspending interest, all in accordance with SBP’s
prudential regulations for commercial banks, and has a time-
bound action plan agreed with SBP and the Bank for increasing
its capital adequacy ratio to 8% within three years; (iv) in
the case of a PFI engaged in lease financing, it has a
debt/equity ratio not greater than 10:1, a current ratio of
over 1.25 and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.25,
all as determined in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (v) it
has a minimum collection ratio on all term loans or lease
financing, as the case may be, of 80% and this is expected to
rise to 85% within two years; (vi) it has a pre-tax profit of
at least 1% of total assets using proper accounting methods, as
required under SBP’s prudential regulations for commercial
banks; and (vii) it has arrears as a percentage of total
portfolio and as a percentage of portfolio affected by arrears
at the end of the most recent fiscal year which are either
lower than in the previous two fiscal years or are less than
10%; and

      (e)   it shall have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Bank that it is currently not disqualified from participating
as a financial intermediary under other Bank-financed projects
or any Asian Development Bank-financed projects.

2.    Each PFI shall satisfy the criteria set forth in paragraph
1 above both as a condition of commencing and, to the extent
relevant, continuing its participation in the Project. To that
end, the performance of each PFI under the Project shall be
reviewed by the Bank once every six months against such
criteria, and, if during any such review the Bank shall
reasonably form the opinion that a given PFI is no longer in
compliance with such criteria, the Bank reserves the right to,
and may, suspend such PFI from further participation under the
Project until the PFI shall have taken specific steps to be,

and shall once again be, in full compliance with such criteria
to the satisfaction of the Bank.

B.    Terms and Conditions

3.    Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each PFI making Sub-loans shall:

      (a)   pay to the Borrower a charge on the amount or amounts
of the Loan withdrawn by the PFI and outstanding from time to
time at a floating annual rate determined for each currency of
withdrawal, being one or another of Dollars, DM and Yen, and
adjusted every six months so as to be equal to the prevailing
component currency cost rate for such currency under loans made
by the Bank plus a spread which shall be sufficient to cover a
commitment fee charge at the rate of 1/4% (one-fourth of one
percent) per annum and the fee payable to the Administrator
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 9 to this Agreement;

      (b)   if not a state-owned financial institution, provide
to the Borrower a guarantee, satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank, from a suitable third party; and, if a state-owned
financial institution, pay to the Borrower an additional charge
of 1/2% (one-half of one percent) per annum on the amount or
amounts of the Loan withdrawn by the PFI and outstanding from
time to time; and

      (c)   repay to the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan relent
to the PFI in accordance with an amortization schedule which
shall be an aggregate composite of the repayment schedules of
the Sub-loans made by the PFI, the principal amount to be
repaid being the aggregate of the amounts withdrawn by the PFI
from the Loan Account expressed in the currency or currencies
of withdrawal, being one or more of Dollars, DM and Yen,
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.

4.    Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each PFI making Lease Investments shall:

      (a)   pay to the Borrower a return on the amount or amounts
of the Loan withdrawn by the PFI and outstanding from time to
time at a provisional rate to be confirmed at the end of each
six-month period so as to be equal to the agreed installment of
the principal to be repaid plus a spread which shall be
sufficient to cover an agreed profit margin, a commitment fee
charge at the rate of 1/4% (one-fourth of one percent) per
annum and the fee payable to the Administrator pursuant to
paragraph 2 of Schedule 9 to this Agreement;

      (b)   give an undertaking to the Borrower, in terms
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, that the PFI shall
at all times hold unencumbered by any lien or hypothecation
assets in value exceeding the amount or amounts of the Loan
withdrawn by the PFI and outstanding from time to time, except
insofar as such lien or hypothecation shall be required to
secure a guarantee for such amount or amounts; and

      (c)   repay to the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan made
available to the PFI over a period of 9 years, including a
grace period of 3 years, the principal amount to be repaid
being the aggregate of the amounts withdrawn by the PFI from
the Loan Account expressed in the currency or currencies of
withdrawal, being one or more of Dollars, DM and Yen,
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                  Procedures and Eligibility Requirements
                      for, and Terms and Conditions
                    of, Sub-loans and Lease Investments

A.    Eligibility Requirements

1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans and
Lease Investments shall be made only:

      (a)   to or in Investment Enterprises which: (i) carry on
any legitimate private sector activity other than in real
estate, trading and certain specified consumer services; and
(ii) have a debt/equity ratio not greater than 60/40, a current
ratio of over 1.2 and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of
1.4, all determined in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) are not in default of repayments to any bank or DFI; and

      (b)   for Investment Projects which: (i) produce goods
other than those meant primarily for the domestic market and
the importation of which is restricted by means other than
import taxes; and (ii) have an after-tax financial rate of
return (in constant prices) of at least 15% in a low-case
scenario where all forms of tax exemption, concessions and
holidays have been withdrawn, determined in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

B.    Terms and Conditions

2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans and
Lease Investments shall be subject to the following terms and
conditions:

(a)   Currency of denomination      :     Dollars, DM, Yen or
      and withdrawal                      rupees (if, in the last
                                          case, foreign exchange
                                          risk cover is obtainable
                                          by or on behalf of the
                                          Investment Enterprise for
                                          a fee)

(b)   Lending rate                  :     To be determined by the
                                          PFI concerned in agreement
                                          with the Investment Enter-
                                          prise concerned, after
                                          taking into account the
                                          charge or return payable
                                          by the PFI to the Borrower
                                          in accordance with para-
                                          graph 3(a) or paragraph
                                          4(a), as the case may be,
                                          of Schedule 5 to this
                                          Agreement and allowing
                                          for a spread to the PFI
                                          sufficient to cover its
                                          costs, foreign exchange
                                          risk, fees, perceived
                                          credit risk and a profit
                                          margin

(c)   Repayment                     :     To be over a period of
                                          up to 12 years including
                                          a grace period of up to 2
                                          years, in the case of a
                                          Sub-loan, and up to 9
                                          years or the useful life
                                          of the equipment financed,
                                          whichever is shorter,
                                          including a grace period
                                          of up to 2 years, in
                                          the case of a Lease
                                          Investment, the principal
                                          amount to be repaid in
                                          each case being the
                                          aggregate of the amounts
                                          withdrawn by the
                                          Investment Enterprise from
                                          the Loan Account expressed

in the currency of
                                          withdrawal determined as
                                          of the respective dates of
                                          withdrawal

      (d)   Maximum Amount          :     $8,000,000 equivalent
            to be disbursed               per Investment Project
            from the Loan
            Account

      (e)   PFI contribution        :     at least 40% of the
                                          debt or lease financing
                                          requirements of the
                                          Investment Project to be
                                          provided by the PFI
                                          concerned as follows: at
                                          least 20% from its own
                                          resources and the rest
                                          arranged by it from other
                                          sources (other than an SBP
                                          line of credit) as long-
                                          term financing, with a
                                          maturity of 5 years or
                                          more

(f)   Investment                    :     at least 40% of the
      Enterprise                          cost of the Invest-
      equity                              ment Project to be
      contribution                        covered by the
                                          Investment Enterprise in
                                          the form of equity
                                          excluding bridge loans

C.    Procedures

3.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan or Lease Investment for such Investment
Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred
eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the application and information required under
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan or
Lease Investment; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have
been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request
and information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule
in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of
this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for
an Investment Project: (i) in an amount to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of
$3,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or of any other loan provided for in any
outstanding loan agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of
which have been or are being used for financing goods and
services directly and materially related to such Investment
Project, the foregoing amount being subject to change from time
to time and/or from PFI to PFI as determined by the Bank; and
(ii) made or proposed to be made by a PFI for which the Bank
shall have approved such a free limit.

4.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or a Lease Investment to the Bank for approval, each
PFI shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form

satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Lease
Investment, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-
loan or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to
be used for the Investment; (iii) whenever relevant, a
statement as to the environmental impact of the Investment
Project and any remedial action to be taken with respect
thereto; and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by a PFI for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the
Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; and
(iii) whenever relevant, a statement as to the environmental
impact of the Investment Project and any remedial action
proposed to be taken with respect thereto.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1998.

5.    Sub-loans and Lease Investments shall be made on terms
whereby each PFI shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Bank and the PFI including, in the case of any Sub-loan and, to
the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case of any
Lease Investment, the right to:

      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(ii) arrangements shall be made to enable the PFI to ascertain
the prices of the lowest evaluated bids for such goods and
services, and to ensure that such goods and services shall be
purchased at reasonable and competitive prices; and (iii) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the PFI
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from

the Investment Project; and

      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under
its contract with the PFI.

                                SCHEDULE 7

                   Procurement and Consultants Services

Section I.      Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:

    (a)   When  contract award is delay beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity may be extended a second
time only if the bidding documents or the request for extension
shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the
period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price shall
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect
to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior review in
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section,
the Bank’s prior approval will be required for: (i) a first
extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension
exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of
the bid validity period.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use or cause to be used bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

Under Part A of the Project

1.  Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$5,000,000 per contract may be purchased at a reasonable and
competitive price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery, and quality, efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, all in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Under Part B of the Project

2.  Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Part C, goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.

3.  Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract awarded in accordance
with the procedures referred to in Part A of this Schedule 7
and the first two contracts awarded in accordance with the
procedures referred to in each of Parts C.1 and C.2 of this
Schedule 7, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower SBP and BEL in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower, SBP and BEL shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consulting raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 8

                    Actions Referred to in Section 3.03
                             of this Agreement

A.  Actions to be taken by the First Exchange of Views

1.  With a view to reducing the fiscal cost of SBP credit
operations and promoting the flow of private sector credit: (a)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, fix the SBP lending
rate to FIs at no more than 3 percentage points below the
average T-bill rate; (b) promote the ability of the private
market to provide foreign exchange coverage for medium-term
loans; and (c) take measures to contain the growth of SBP
credit to the private sector within the limits of the
corresponding growth in overall private sector credit.

2.  With a view to improving monetary and credit management and
introducing a level playing field for FIs, carry out a study
and, on the basis of the recommendations thereof as agreed with
the Bank, develop and implement a plan to regulate FIs by
activity, and, in particular, to prescribe liquidity ratios for
NBFIs compatible with those applying to banks in regard to
foreign exchange and other deposits.

3.  With respect to foreign exchange deposits, price the
provision of foreign exchange risk coverage so as to reduce the
attractiveness of such deposits.

4.  With respect to prudential regulations, define the minimum
capitalization requirement for banks in relation to risk-
weighted assets and develop a program to achieve compliance
therewith.

5.  With a view to promoting long-term financing, review the
desirability of issuing long-term variable rate debt
instruments and, in the light of such review, take necessary
action to facilitate the issue of such instruments.

6.  With a view to promoting the development of the securities
market: (a) reduce NIT’s privileged access to new issues
pursuant to a phased program for eliminating such access; (b)
take measures to promote the establishment of investor
protection funds; (c) study the desirability of establishing an
over-the-counter equities market; (d) commence the operations
of CLA’s securities regulation wing established under Part
B.3(a) of the Project; and (e) take measures, with respect to
the stock exchanges, to promote the incorporation of individual
members, to ensure the capital adequacy both of individual and
corporate members and to enhance the requirement of disclosure
of information.

7.  With respect to NBFIs, complete: (a) the term lending study
to be carried out under Part B.2(c) of the Project; and (b) the

DFI studies to be carried out under Part B.5 of the Project.

8.  With a view to strengthening the insurance sector: (a) on
the basis of a review of the options study carried out under
Part B.4(c) of the Project, decide on the modalities for
restructuring SLIC and PIC; (b) pursuant to the reforms
introduced under Part B.4(d) of the Project, increase the
minimum capital requirements for general and life insurance
companies; and (c) enable CI to regulate state-owned insurance
companies.

9.  With a view to improving the legal environment for debt
recovery, take measures to implement the first phase of the
reforms that shall have been recommended by the Task Force.

B.  Actions to be taken by the Second Exchange of Views

1.  With a view to reducing the fiscal cost of SBP credit
operations and promoting the flow of private sector credit, fix
the SBP lending rate to FIs at least to equal the T-bill rate.

2.  With a view to improving monetary and credit management,
complete the shift from the cash deposit rate (CDR) to indirect
method for purposes of control of credit.

3.  With a view to introducing a level playing field for FIs:
(a) review the implementation of the plan referred to in A.2
above, and agree on and take further necessary actions; and (b)
reduce the differences among FIs and between FIs and non-FIs,
as to income taxation of such institutions.

4.  With respect to prudential regulations, define the minimum
capitalization requirement for NBFIs in relation to risk-
weighted assets and develop a program to achieve compliance
therewith.

5.  With a view to promoting long-term financing, evaluate the
actions taken pursuant to paragraph A.5 above, and take any
further necessary action to continue to facilitate the issue of
long-term variable rate debt instruments.

6.  With a view to promoting the securities market: (a) complete
a study of the possibility of establishing a regulatory
framework to facilitate the trading of commodities, foreign
exchange and stock futures; and (b) take measures under Part
B.3(a) of the Project to regulate insider trading.

7.  With respect to NBFIs, implement the agreed recommendations
of the DFI studies carried out under Part B.5 of the Project.

8.  With a view to strengthening the insurance sector: (a)
initiate a program for the restructuring of SLIC and PIC
pursuant to proposals prepared under Part B.4(c) of the
Project; (b) pursuant to reforms introduced under Part B.4(d)
of the Project, further reduce the requirement of compulsory
reinsurance with PIC; and (c) review the system of rate-setting
by the Insurance Association of Pakistan with a view to phasing
out that system.

9.  With a view to improving the legal environment for debt
recovery, take measures to implement the second and final phase
of the reforms that shall have been recommended by the Task
Force.

                                SCHEDULE 9

                          Implementation Program

1.  The responsibility for the administration of Sub-loans and
Lease Investments under Part A of the Project and of the
technical assistance under Parts B.3, B.4 and B.6 of the
Project shall be assigned to the Administrator. To that end,

the Administrator shall establish an Administrative Unit (AU)
headed by a banking/credit manager to be appointed under the
Project and comprising, in addition, two project officers,
environment specialists, an accounts/disbursements officer and
support staff. The AU shall, inter alia, monitor the
eligibility status of each PFI; provide information on
financial institutions interested in participating under the
Project; receive from PFIs and pass on to the Bank applications
for approval of Sub-loans and Lease Investments and requests
for authorization of withdrawals in respect of free-limit Sub-
loans under Part A of the Project; channel withdrawal
applications from, and funds to, PFIs under Part A of the
Project; channel funds to CLA, CI and PC under Parts B.3, B.4
and B.6, respectively, of the Project; channel payments and
repayments due to the Borrower from PFIs under Part A of the
Project; and account for expenditures under Parts A, B.3, B.4
and B.6 of the Project. The AU shall not be responsible for
deciding on the participation of financial institutions under
the Project which shall be a matter falling exclusively within
the domain of the Bank; nor shall it be responsible for judging
the merits of Investment Projects, which shall be a matter
falling within the exclusive domain of PFIs. The AU shall have
its own operational policies and procedures, which it shall
develop under the Project, and shall train its staff, all with
the assistance of the banking/credit manager referred to above.

2.  The Administrator shall receive from the Borrower a fee
payable at the rate of 1/2% (one-half of one percent) per annum
on the amount or amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account and
outstanding from time to time with respect to Sub-loans and
Lease Investments under Part A of the Project until the
preparation of the project implementation completion report
referred to in Section 9.07(c) of the General Conditions, and
at the rate of 1/4% (one-fourth of one percent) per annum on
such amount or amounts thereafter and until all Sub-loans and
Lease Investments under      Part A of the Project shall have
been repaid. The Administrator shall receive from the Borrower
an advance on its fee in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000
payable out of the proceeds of the Loan, which the
Administrator shall repay in equal semi-annual installments
over a period of six years commencing on the date the
Administrator shall have received, on behalf of the Borrower,
the first of the  repayments due to the Borrower from PFIs
under Part A of the Project.

3.  The responsibilities and terms and conditions of the
Administrator shall be set forth in the Administration
Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

4.  SBP shall be responsible for monitoring progress in carrying
out the Program, and SBP and BEL shall be responsible for the
administration of their own technical assistance under Parts
B.1 and B.2 and B.5, respectively, of the Project, and shall
report on these matters directly to the Bank.

5.  SBP and BEL (in its own right and as the Administrator)
shall each furnish to the Bank, within 45 days of each
reporting period, a semi-annual report in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank on progress under the Project. The
Administrator shall also furnish to the Bank, within 45 days of
each reporting period and in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, a semi-annual report on the expenditures incurred by
the AU under the Project. SBP shall include in its report
progress in the carrying out of the Program. The indicators
against which progress under the Program and the Project shall
be monitored shall be set forth in an Implementation Plan
satisfactory to the Bank. The Implementation Plan shall be
reviewed and revised as necessary by the Borrower and the Bank
not later than January 31 and July 31 in each year, with the
first such review taking place not later than January 31, 1996.