World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3936 RO

                              Loan Agreement

          (Power Sector Rehabilitation and Modernization Project)

                                  between

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                                    and

                      REGIA AUTONOMA DE ELECTRICITATE

                           Dated August 29, 1995

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3936 RO

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1995 between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REGIA
AUTONOMA DE ELECTRICITATE (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Romania (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan (as defined hereinafter) and to undertake
such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from other sources
of finance (the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate
amount equivalent to about one hundred thirty four million one
hundred thousand dollars ($134,100,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
(the Cofinanciers’ Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend a loan (the Loan) to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:

            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "Corporate Restructuring Program" means the program
to be carried out under Part C of Schedule 2 hereto;

      (b)   "Power Sector Strategy" means the strategy of the
Guarantor for the development of the power sector as stated in
an official document dated May 1995;

      (c)   "Project Implementation Department" means the
department established by the Borrower for the implementation
of Parts B and C of the Project; and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred ten million
dollars ($110,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."

"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
      Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B and
C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, environmental and public utility practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                ARTICLE IV

                 Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,

and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

                                 ARTICLE V

                       Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) and
                  the records and accounts for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                  its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

                (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a)
                      of this Section, records and accounts
                      reflecting such expenditures;

               (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                      Bank has received the audit report for the
                      fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                      from the Loan Account was made, all records
                      (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                      receipts and other documents) evidencing
                      such expenditures;

              (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                      such records; and

               (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                      included in the annual audit referred to in
                      paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                      report of such audit contains a separate
                      opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                      statements of expenditure submitted during
                      such fiscal year, together with the
                      procedures and internal controls involved in
                      their preparation, can be relied upon to
                      support the related withdrawals.

Section 5.02.(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year 1994, funds from internal sources equivalent to
no less than 30% of the annual average of the Borrower’s
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for
that year, the previous fiscal year and the next following
year.

    (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.

    (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet
such requirements.

    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)     The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

               (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related
                      to operations, consumer deposits and
                      consumer contributions in aid of
                      construction, net non-operating income and
                      any reduction in working capital other than
                      cash; and

               (B)    the sum of all expenses related to
                      operations, including administration,
                      adequate maintenance and taxes and payments
                      in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
                      depreciation and other non-cash operating
                      charges), debt service requirements, all
                      cash dividends and other cash distributions
                      of surplus, increase in working capital
                      other than cash and other cash outflows
                      other than capital expenditures.

         (ii)     The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

               (A)    revenues from all sources other than those
                      related to operations; and

               (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in
                      lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                      revenues in (A) above.

        (iii)     The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  fiscal year.

         (iv)     The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

          (v)     The term "current liabilities" means all
                  liabilities which will become due and payable or
                  could under circumstances then existing be
                  called for payment within twelve months,

including accounts payable, customer advances,
                  debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                  lieu of taxes, and dividends.

         (vi)     The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including
                  sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                  and other charges on, debt.

        (vii)     The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed
                  assets, including interest charged to
                  construction, related to operations.

       (viii)     Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made
                  on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

    Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that the estimated net revenues shall
be at least 1.5 times in 1995 and each succeeding fiscal year
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower
for any such fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower.

    (b)   If any projections based on reasonable forecasts
referred to in Section 5.05 shows that the Borrower shall not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower’s fiscal year covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet
such requirements.

    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                after the date on which it is originally
                incurred.

               (ii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                      between:

               (A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related
                      to operations and net non-operating income;
                      and

              (B)     the sum of all expenses related to
                      operations including administration,
                      adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                      lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                      depreciation, other non-cash operating
                      charges and interest and other charges on
                      debt.

          (iii)       The term "net non-operating income" means
                      the difference between:

               (A)    revenues from all sources other than those
                      related to operations; and

               (B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in
                      lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                      revenues in (A) above.

         (iv)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking

fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                charges on, debt.

          (v)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                exchange acceptable to the Bank.

    Section 5.04. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i)
receivables on its electricity and thermal energy sales to
private sector, including households, will not exceed the
average of two months’ sales to such customers; and (ii)
payables to its suppliers will be made according to the
respective supplier contract.

    Section 5.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (i) by
October 31 of each year beginning with 1995, for the Bank’s
review, the draft of a rolling five-year corporate plan setting
forth for each year (a) the agreed medium-term investment
program and the sources of financing, including borrowing needs
and tariff levels and structures, (b) the financial targets,
supported by financial projections showing compliance with the
agreed financial performance criteria, and (c) the progress in
the implementation of the Corporate Restructuring Program; and
(ii) by December 31 of each year beginning with 1995, the final
rolling five-year corporate plan, incorporating any Bank’s
comments on the previous draft, and approved by the Guarantor.

                                ARTICLE VI

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, that:

    (a)   The Cofinanciers’ Agreements shall have failed to
become effective by December 31, 1995, or such later date as
the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for Parts B
and C of the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.

    (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

               (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                      proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                      Borrower for the financing of the Project
                      shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                      terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                      the terms of the agreement providing
                      therefor, or

               (B)    any such loan shall have become due and
                      payable prior to the agreed maturity
                      thereof.

         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the

Project are available to the Borrower from other
                sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have provided to
the Bank satisfactory evidence that the Borrower has concluded
enforceable arrangements for debt repayment with each of the
customers listed in an annex to the Power Sector Strategy.

    Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                               ARTICLE VIII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 8.01. The Deputy Director General, Finance, of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

    Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)

    For the Borrower:

          Regia Autonoma de Electricitate
          33, Gen. Gh. Magheru Blvd.
          RO 70164
          Bucharest
          Romania

                                        Telex:

                                           11279 Renel

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                      By /s/ Rachel Lomax
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia

                      REGIA AUTONOMA DE ELECTRICITATE

                      By /s/ Eugen Tanase
                                                Authorized Representative

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1) Goods (including         90,000,000             85%
    associated works
    and services)

(2) Consulting
    services:

    (a) Engineering          11,000,000             100%
        and Project
        management
        consulting
        services

    (b) Other consulting      5,000,000             100%
        services

(3) Unallocated               4,000,000
                            ___________

        TOTAL               110,000,000
                            ===========

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1995.

3.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for services under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by

notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the
Guarantor’s program to reform the power sector in accordance
with the Guarantor’s overall economic reform objectives; (b)
meet the demand for electricity and thermal energy in an
economic manner by rehabilitating thermal generation capacity;
and (c) lay the foundation for the future development of the
sector in an institutionally, economically and environmentally
sustainable manner.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower, with
respect to Parts B and C of the Project, and the Bank and the
Guarantor, with respect to Part A of the Project, may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Power Sector Reform Program

    Provision of technical assistance to the Guarantor to: (i)
carry out and implement a study of options of long-term
structure for the power sector; (ii) develop and implement an
appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the sector to
attract private investments to the sector; and (iii) establish
a long-term least-cost power generation development program,
and carry out and implement an electricity and thermal energy
pricing study.

Part B:   Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Program

    Provision of equipment, services and technical assistance to
the Borrower to: (i) rehabilitate about 1,445 MW of its
existing thermal generation capacity; (ii) convert about 200 MW
of its existing lignite-based thermal capacity to coal use; and
(iii) reduce pollution impact of thermal plants.

Part C:   Corporate Restructuring Program

    Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to: (i)
streamline the utility to focus on electricity and thermal
energy generation, transmission, and distribution; (ii) create
cost/profit centers for the generation plants and distribution
subsidiaries; (iii) design and implement management systems
(for operation and maintenance management, financial and cost
accounting, human resources, materials management, and
corporate planning systems); (iv) improve the billing and
collection system; (v) design hydropower plant, and
transmission and distribution network rehabilitation programs;
(vi) retire old and inefficient thermal units; and (vii)
improve environmental management and occupational safety and
health.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*

May 1, 2001                                            2,115,000
November 1, 2001                                       2,190,000
May 1, 2002                                            2,270,000
November 1, 2002                                       2,350,000
May 1, 2003                                            2,430,000
November 1, 2003                                       2,520,000
May 1, 2004                                            2,605,000

November 1, 2004                                       2,700,000
May 1, 2005                                            2,795,000
November 1, 2005                                       2,895,000
May 1, 2006                                            2,995,000
November 1, 2006                                       3,105,000
May 1, 2007                                            3,215,000
November 1, 2007                                       3,325,000
May 1, 2008                                            3,445,000
November 1, 2008                                       3,565,000
May 1, 2009                                            3,695,000
November 1, 2009                                       3,825,000
May 1, 2010                                            3,960,000
November 1, 2010                                       4,100,000
May 1, 2011                                            4,245,000
November 1, 2011                                       4,395,000
May 1, 2012                                            4,550,000
November 1, 2012                                       4,715,000
May 1, 2013                                            4,880,000
November 1, 2013                                       5,055,000
May 1, 2014                                            5,230,000
November 1, 2014                                       5,420,000
May 1, 2015                                            5,610,000
November 1, 2015                                       5,800,000
______________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                            0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                            0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                              0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                           0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                           0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                            1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.      Procurement of Goods

Part A:   General

Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  The supply of goods, erection and commissioning services for
each of the thermal plants under Part B of the Project shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.

2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.

    (a)   Prequalification

    Bidders for goods under Part B of the Project shall be
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.

    (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods

    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Guarantor.

Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Procurement Planning

    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.

2.  Prior Review

    With respect to all contracts procured under Section I Part
B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981. For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall
be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

I.  Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Program

    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure
that the Project Implementation Department will continue to be
adequately staffed and funded in a manner satisfactory to the

Bank.

II.       Corporate Restructuring Program

    The Borrower shall: (i) by September 30, 1995, or such later
date as the Bank may agree, appoint consultants, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist in carrying out the activities listed in
paragraphs (i) to (iv) of Part C of Schedule 2 hereof, and
complete such activities by December 31, 1997, or such later
date as the Bank may agree; (ii) by January 31, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank may agree, appoint consultants, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist in carrying out the activities listed in
paragraph (v) of Part C of Schedule 2 hereof; (iii) according
to a timetable acceptable to the Bank, carry out the activities
listed in paragraph (vi) of Part C of Schedule 2 hereof; and
(iv) by December 1, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may
agree, appoint consultants, whose qualifications and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in
carrying out activities listed in paragraph (vii) of Part C of
Schedule 2 hereof.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount of $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $18,000,000.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such

intervals as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested.
                On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of the Special Account
                for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the SpecialAccount, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Parts B and C of the Project,
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts B and C of the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts B and C of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence

furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.