Conformed0Copy0ect000Loan0Agreement.txt

Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3811-PE
                              Loan Agreement
            (Lima Water Rehabilitation and Management Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 2, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3811-PE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
PERU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   The Project will be carried out or supervised by
Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima (SEDAPAL)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to SEDAPAL the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) a loan (the OECF
Loan) in an amount equivalent to $76,200,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and OECF; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
SEDAPAL;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

(a)   "Concessionaire" means the company to be established
under Peruvian law to whom SEDAPAL may have awarded a
concession for the provision of water supply and sewerage
services in the Lima Metropolitan Area;
      (b)   "Concession Contract" means the contract to be
entered into, if the case, between SEDAPAL and the
Concessionaire and such term shall include all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Concession Contract;
      (c)   "First Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SEDAPAL pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
and SEDAPAL starting on January 1 and ending on December 31;
      (e)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be approved by SEDAPAL pursuant to
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; such manual to contain
norms and procedures for Project implementation and supervision
including: (i) the procedures and criteria to select the
investments under Part C of the Project; (ii) the disbursement
and procurement procedures to be followed by SEDAPAL during
Project implementation, including standard disbursement forms
and standard bidding documents; (iii) the terms of reference of
the consultants to be employed in the PMU; and (iv) norms and
procedures related to engineering, communication, reporting and
administrative matters;
      (f)   "Lima Metropolitan Area" means the Province of Lima
and the Constitutional Province of Callao;
      (g)   "Management Agreement" means an annual agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between the
Borrower, through its Ministry of the Presidency, and SEDAPAL
and which agreement shall provide for the management and
supervision of SEDAPAL's operations including the commitment of
SEDAPAL to achieve targets concerning its operational
Page  3
efficiency, physical activity, commercial efficiency, financial
management, productivity and service quality; and "Management
Agreements" means collectively all of such agreements;
      (h)   "PCC" means a project consultative committee to be
established by SEDAPAL pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement, and which committee shall be responsible for
providing guidance to the PMU (as hereinafter defined) and to
ensure proper coordination between the execution of the Project
and other investments and activities of SEDAPAL;
      (i)   "PMU" means a project management unit to be
established by SEDAPAL pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement for the management and supervision of the Project;
      (j)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
      (k)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and SEDAPAL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (l)   "Regulations" means the regulations referred to in
Section 6.01 (f) of this Agreement;

(m)   "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into, if the
case, between SEDAPAL and the Concessionaire, providing for the
transfer of Loan proceeds from SEDAPAL to the Concessionaire
and the latter's responsibilities in the implementation of the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules, including performance plans and
monitoring indicators, and agreements supplemental to the
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (n)   "SEDAPAL Bylaws" means the bylaws of SEDAPAL approved
by the Borrower's Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 048
VI dated December 15, 1981 and published in the Borrower's
official gazette (El Peruano) on December 20, 1981, as such
bylaws are amended from time to time;
      (o)   "Services Law" means the Borrower's Ley General de
Servicios de Saneamiento, No. 26338 dated July 15, 1994, and
published in the Borrower's official gazette (El Peruano) on
July 24, 1994;
      (p)   "SNSS" means the Borrower's National Superintendency
for Sanitation Services (Superintendencia Nacional de Servicios
de Saneamiento);
      (q)   "SNSS Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, to be entered into between SEDAPAL and SNSS providing
for the participation and responsibilities of SNSS in the
implementation of Part D.1 (d) of the Project; and
      (r)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
Page  4
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent

(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
Page  5
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The General Manager of SEDAPAL is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SEDAPAL to perform all its
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable SEDAPAL to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
SEDAPAL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SEDAPAL, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
First Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, terminate or waive the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (d)   The Borrower through its Ministry of Presidency,
shall enter into annual Management Agreements with SEDAPAL as
long as SEDAPAL has not awarded the Concession Contract. The
Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations under the
Management Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Management Agreements
or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall participate with SEDAPAL
and the Bank in the Project reviews referred to in Sections
2.09 and 2.10 of the Project Agreement. As part of such reviews
the Bank may require that the Borrower and SEDAPAL, separately
or jointly, prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to make adjustments in Project design and implementation. In
the event that the Bank requires the Borrower to prepare an
Page  6
action plan, or a joint action plan with SEDAPAL, the Borrower
shall furnish such action plan to the Bank not later than
thirty days after the conclusion of the review in question and
shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such
action plan in accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall implement, or cause to be

implemented, the plan referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this
Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank until the
Concession Contract shall have become effective in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall amend the SEDAPAL Bylaws,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, to adapt such
bylaws to the Services Law prior to the review referred to in
Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and separate accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                  made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                  such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a)(i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank a soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each Fiscal Year the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
Page  7
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   SEDAPAL shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that SEDAPAL will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of SEDAPAL or for the suspension of its
operations;
      (d)   The Services Law or the Regulations or the SEDAPAL
Bylaws shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would
adversely affect: (i) the ability of SEDAPAL to carry out the
Project or perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement; or (ii) the efficient management of water supply and
sewerage services in the Lima Metropolitan Area;
      (e)   Any of the parties to the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall have failed to perform any of their respective
obligations thereunder; and
      (f)   SNSS shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the SNSS Agreement in which case the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend the Borrower's right to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account only with respect to
Part D.1 (d) of the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (e) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed
on behalf of the Borrower and SEDAPAL;
      (b)   the Management Agreement for 1995 has been signed on
behalf of the Borrower and SEDAPAL;
      (c)   the Implementation Manual has been duly approved by
SEDAPAL;
      (d)   the PCC and PMU have been established and the
following personnel have been employed in the PMU: the Project
manager, a procurement specialist, a field supervision
engineer, a financial manager and a social assessment
specialist;
      (e)   the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a time-bound
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to set up a mechanism for the
financing of secondary works in the Lima Metropolitan Area;
Page  8
      (f)   the Borrower's Executive Branch has enacted
regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, to the Services Law;
such regulations to include specific norms and criteria
regarding the tariff structure and levels for the provision of

water supply and sewerage services; and
      (g)   SEDAPAL has opened the Project Account in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SEDAPAL, and is legally binding upon SEDAPAL in
accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SEDAPAL and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and SEDAPAL in accordance
with its terms;
      (c)   that the Management Agreement for 1995 has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SEDAPAL and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and SEDAPAL in accordance
with its terms;
      (d)   that the Regulations have been legally enacted and
are in full force and effect; and
      (e)   that the Implementation Manual has been duly approved
by SEDAPAL.
      Section 6.03. The date May 2, 1995 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
            Jiron Junin 319
            Lima 1, Peru
                                          Telex:
                                            25013 PE MEF
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
Page  9
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF PERU

By /s/ Jorge Camet Dickman
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Works                       100,400,000       100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  66% of local
                                                  expenditures
(2) Goods                        23,800,000       100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  66% of local
                                                  expenditures
(3) Technical                    25,800,000       100% of foreign
    assistance                                    expenditures and
    (Project manage-                              85% of local
    ment, engineering                             expenditures
    and supervision,
    institutional
    strengthening and
    studies)
                                ___________
        TOTAL                   150,000,000
                                ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  10
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000,
may be made in respect of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after May 15, 1994; and (b) payments made for
expenditures under Part D.1 (d) of the Project unless the SNSS
Agreement has been duly executed by the parties thereto.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for: (a) works estimated to cost $500,000

equivalent or less; (b) goods estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or less; and (c) technical assistance estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less, in the case of consulting
firms and $20,000 equivalent or less, in the case of individual
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the
efficiency in the provision of water supply and sewerage
services in the Lima Metropolitan Area by promoting water
conservation and supporting the privatization of SEDAPAL's
operations; (b) to rehabilitate the damaged water supply and
sewerage system in the Lima Metropolitan Area; and (c) to
expand water supply and sewerage services in the low-income
areas of the Lima Metropolitan Area.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water Conservation
1.  Execution of a program to reduce unaccounted-for water
consisting of: (a) the preparation of a water connection
cadastre; (b) the reconstruction of substandard water meter
boxes; and (c) the installation of about 406,000 new water
meters covering about fifty-six percent (56%) of SEDAPAL's
water connections.
2.  Execution of a program for conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater consisting of: (a) the installation of secondary
network pipes (including the acquisition and utilization of
pipes required therefor) in the districts of San Miguel, Los
Olivos, San Martin de Porres and Callao; (b) the construction
of about 9 water reservoirs in the districts mentioned in (a)
above; (c) the rehabilitation of wells in the districts
mentioned in (a) above; and (d) the reinforcement of about 35
kilometers of primary network pipes to use additional water
flow from the La Atarjea treatment plant.
Part B:   Rehabilitation Works
1.  Rehabilitation of the existing water supply network in
selected districts, agreed between SEDAPAL and the Bank,
consisting of: (a) the replacement or rehabilitation, as the
case may be, of about 42 kilometers of primary network pipes
and about 622 kilometers of secondary network pipes; (b) the
rehabilitation of about 129 unused water reservoirs; (c) the
Page  11
reparation of about 156 water reservoirs; and (d) the
acquisition and utilization of maintenance equipment.
2.  Rehabilitation of the sewerage network in selected
districts, agreed between SEDAPAL and the Bank, consisting of:
(a) the replacement of about 77 kilometers of primary network
pipes and about 616 kilometers of secondary network pipes; (b)
the reparation of about 123,000 house connections and about
12,300 manholes; and (c) the acquisition and utilization of
maintenance equipment.
3.  Rehabilitation of about 124 water wells and the acquisition
and utilization of maintenance equipment.
Part C:   Service Expansion

Expansion of the water supply and sewerage systems to cover
about 600,000 people in low-income areas (pueblos jovenes)
including the construction of transmission lines, pumping
stations, reservoirs, interceptors and wastewater treatment
plants.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
1.  Execution of programs to (a) strengthen the PMU; (b) assist
SEDAPAL in the engineering design and supervision of the works
to be carried out under the Project; (c) strengthen SEDAPAL's
commercial and financial management functions; (d) strengthen
SNSS's institutional capacity; (e) support the creation and
establishment of a water management authority for the Rimac,
Chillon and Lurin river basins; and (f) design a proposed
project on wastewater management and coastal pollution control
in the Lima Metropolitan Area.
2.  Carrying out of studies on: (a) the sectorization of the
main central water supply network in Lima, including the
acquisition and utilization of equipment required therefor; (b)
the modeling of the aquifer of Lima; (c) the unaccounted-for
water in the District of Pueblo Libre, including the
acquisition and utilization of equipment required therefor; (d)
the feasibility of constructing a water treatment plant and
associated works in the Chillon river; and (e) the feasibility
of constructing a wastewater disposal facility in Lima.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 2000                                   2,880,000
November 15, 2000                              2,985,000
May 15, 2001                                   3,090,000
November 15, 2001                              3,200,000
May 15, 2002                                   3,315,000
November 15, 2002                              3,430,000
May 15, 2003                                   3,555,000
November 15, 2003                              3,680,000
May 15, 2004                                   3,810,000
November 15, 2004                              3,945,000
May 15, 2005                                   4,085,000
November 15, 2005                              4,230,000
May 15, 2006                                   4,380,000
November 15, 2006                              4,535,000
May 15, 2007                                   4,695,000
November 15, 2007                              4,865,000
Page  12
May 15, 2008                                   5,035,000
November 15, 2008                              5,215,000
May 15, 2009                                   5,400,000
November 15, 2009                              5,590,000
May 15, 2010                                   5,790,000
November 15, 2010                              5,995,000
May 15, 2011                                   6,210,000
November 15, 2011                              6,430,000

May 15, 2012                                   6,655,000
November 15, 2012                              6,895,000
May 15, 2013                                   7,140,000
November 15, 2013                              7,390,000
May 15, 2014                                   7,655,000
November 15, 2014                              7,920,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on the
                                   day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and
    (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Bank
Page  13
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions)
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the

provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and account of the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
Page  14
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General

Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories,minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.