World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3832 EGT

                              Loan Agreement

                     (Irrigation Improvement Project)

                                  between

                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated November 27, 1995

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3832 EGT

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 27, 1995, between ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the International Development Association (the
Association) of even date herewith (the Development Credit
Agreement), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to thirty-five million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,700,000);

      (C)   the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in
the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are
made; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of

the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty six million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($26,700,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

(c)   For the purposes of this Section:

                (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                      ending on the date immediately preceding
                      each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                      Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                      Period in which this Agreement is signed.

               (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                      cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                      and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
                      the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn
                      down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                      borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank
                      has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
                      investments; and (B) loans which may be made
                      by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                      interest rates determined otherwise than as
                      provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

              (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                      second six months of a calendar year.

    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
    amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
    time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
    Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
    of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
    the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
    amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
    calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
    Period."

          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
    Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

          "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
    commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
    calendar year."

    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Section 2.02 (b) and Articles III and IV of the Development
Credit Agreement and Schedules 1 through 5 thereto are
incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following
modifications in said Section, Articles and Schedules unless
the context otherwise requires:

          (i)   the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
                and

         (ii)   the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
                read as "Loan" and "Loan Account".

    (b)   So long as any part of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and

unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:

          (i)   all actions taken, including approvals given, by
                the Association pursuant to any of the Sections
                and Articles of, and Schedules to, the
                Development Credit Agreement enumerated in
                paragraph (a) of this Section, as well as
                pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the Development
                Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or
                given in the name and on behalf of both the
                Association and the Bank; and

         (ii)   all information or documentation furnished by the
                Borrower to the Association pursuant to the
                provisions of any of such Sections of the
                Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
                shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
                Association and the Bank.

                                ARTICLE IV

                           Remedies of the Bank

    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, the events set out in Section 5.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the term
"Association" wherever it appears in such Section shall be read
as "Bank".

    Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, the event set out in Section 5.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 5.01. The following event is an additional condition
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement.

    Section 5.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.

    Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of
the Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower
and the Bank.

                                ARTICLE VI

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 6.01. The Minister of State for International
Cooperation of the Borrower’s Ministry of International
Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International
Finance of said Ministry is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

Ministry of International Cooperation
          (International Finance Sector)
          8 Adly Street
          Cairo, Egypt

          Cable address:                      Telex:

                MINISTRY OF INTERNATIONAL       927-23348
                  COOPERATION,
                Cairo

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                      Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                       197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.

                ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                By /s/ Ahmed Maher El-Sayed
                                                Authorized Representative

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa

                                 SCHEDULE

                           Amortization Schedule

                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*

June 15, 2000                                         515,000
December 15, 2000                                     530,000
June 15, 2001                                         550,000
December 15, 2001                                     570,000
June 15, 2002                                         590,000
December 15, 2002                                     610,000
June 15, 2003                                         630,000
December 15, 2003                                     655,000
June 15, 2004                                         680,000

December 15, 2004                                     700,000
June 15, 2005                                         725,000
December 15, 2005                                     755,000
June 15, 2006                                         780,000
December 15, 2006                                     805,000
June 15, 2007                                         835,000
December 15, 2007                                     865,000
June 15, 2008                                         895,000
December 15, 2008                                     930,000
June 15, 2009                                         960,000
December 15, 2009                                     995,000
June 15, 2010                                       1,030,000
December 15, 2010                                   1,065,000
June 15, 2011                                       1,105,000
December 15, 2011                                   1,145,000
June 15, 2012                                       1,185,000
December 15, 2012                                   1,225,000
June 15, 2013                                       1,270,000
December 15, 2013                                   1,315,000
June 15, 2014                                       1,360,000
December 15, 2014                                   1,425,000

__________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable
                                  to the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity