World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4019 PH

                            Loan Agreement

                    (Manila Second Sewerage Project)

                                between

                METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM

                                   and

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                           Dated June 19, 1996

                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4019 PH

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1996, between METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND
SEWERAGE SYSTEM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)  by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and
the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake
such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no

withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
            the territories of any country which is not a member of the
            Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons
            or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or
            import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a
            decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
            Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."

      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
            with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
            Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "Act" means Republic Act No. 6243 of the Guarantor, as amended
to the date of this Agreement, establishing the Metropolitan Waterworks
and Sewerage System as an agency of the Guarantor responsible for
developing, operating and maintaining water supply, sewerage and sanitation
systems in and around Metro Manila;

      (b)   "Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas" means the central bank of the
Guarantor and any successor thereto;

      (c)   "DPWH" means the Department of Public Works and Highways of
the Guarantor and any successor thereto;

      (d)   "EMP" means the environmental management plan dated January
1996 which sets out the basic measures to protect, or to mitigate the
effects on, the environment during the construction and the operation
phases of the Project, and the administrative and monitoring arrangements
to ensure the implementation of said measures;

      (e)   "Sewerage System Department" and the acronym "SSD" mean the
department of the Borrower which is responsible for sewerage and
sanitation services within Metro Manila; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                               ARTICLE II

                                The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
fifty-seven million dollars ($57,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as
of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory to the  Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                  (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                  1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                  as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this
Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
            of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
            rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
            plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
            Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
            outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
            at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
            on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, environmental,
financial, administrative and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.

                                ARTICLE IV

                Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01 The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public
utility practices.

      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.

      (c)   The Borrower shall consult with the Bank prior to under-
taking any of the following actions: (i) substantial restructuring or
reorganization of its operations; (ii) substantial modification,
surrender, abandonment, transfer or other disposition of either its
water supply operations or its sewerage and sanitation operations; or
(iii) conclusion of any concession agreements in respect of such
operations.

      Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

                              ARTICLE V

                         Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, its
operations and financial condition.

(b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its accounts and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                  statements), including, specifically and separately,
                  the accounts and financial statements of SSD, and the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements, including, specifically and separately,
                  the financial statements for SSD, for such year as so
                  audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said accounts and financial statements as well as the
                  audit thereof and said records, as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all such actions as may be necessary to ensure that,
for each year commencing in 1996, its net accounts receivable (excluding
provisions for bad debts) in respect of its water supply and sewerage and
sanitation services would not exceed the amount of such charges actually
billed by the Borrower during the preceding three months.

      Section 5.03.  The Borrower shall:

      (a)   for each year commencing in 1997, prepare separately and
furnish to the Bank an annual budget for SSD which shall include an
income statement and a balance sheet; and

      (b)   by March 31 of each year commencing in 1997, furnish to the
Bank annual updated financial projections for SSD.

      Section 5.04.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,

      (a)   the Borrower shall take all such actions as may be necessary,
including adjustment of the structure or levels of sewerage rates to
generate, for each year commencing in 1996, funds from internal sources

allocated to SSD equivalent to not less than twenty five percent (25%)
of the annual average of the capital expenditures allocated to SSD which
are expected to be incurred in such year; and

      (b)   the Borrower shall not incur any debt to be allocated to SSD,
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures allocated
to SSD shows that the projected net revenues allocated to SSD for each
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2
times the projected debt service requirement allocated to SSD in such
year on all debt allocated to SSD, including the debt to be incurred.

      Section 5.05.  For the purposes of Section 5.04:

      (a)   The term "funds from internal sources" means (i) internal
cash generation less (ii) debt service and change in working capital
other than cash.

      (b)   The term "internal cash generation" means the sum of net
income before interest expense, depreciation, other non-cash debits and
credits and incidental revenue.

      (c)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures
incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations. The average annual of such capital
expenditures shall be calculated on a rolling three year basis and, for
any year, shall be the average of the capital expenditures incurred or
projected, as the case may be, for such year and for each of the
following two years.

      (d)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.

      (e)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or
further modification of its terms of payment, on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.

      (f)   The term "net revenues" means gross revenues allocated to SSD
from all sources, adjusted to take account of SSD’s tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating expenses allocated to SSD, including expenses in respect of
administration, maintenance and taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but
before provision for depreciation of assets and interest and other charges
on debt.

      (g)   The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount
of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.

      (h)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared for
SSD in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is to be incurred,
which both the Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which
the Bank has notified the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no
event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably
be expected in the future to have a material or adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results of SSD.

      (i)   Whenever for the purposes of Section 5.04 it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of currency of the Guarantor, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.06. The Borrower shall, commencing as soon as possible but
in no event later than March 31, 1997, and thereafter, take all such
actions as may be necessary to: (i) on a quarterly basis, complete the
posting of the revenues and administrative costs allocated to its water

supply services and its sewerage services respectively; (ii) make all
necessary cash transfer between the internal receivable and payable
accounts of such services to evidence such allocation of revenues and
costs; and (iii) at each year end close the account between such services.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                            Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that:
the Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the
financial condition of the Borrower, or the ability of the Borrower to
carry out the Project or any part thereof, or to perform any of the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, any
event specified in Section 6.01 hereof shall occur.

                               ARTICLE VII

                       Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of  the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower shall have obtained from the Guarantor’s
Environmental Management Bureau environmental compliance certificates in
respect of the construction and operation of each of Parts A (1) and (2)
and B (1), (2) and (3) of the Project;

      (b)   the Borrower shall have obtained authorization from its Board
of Trustees to raise the average water tariff in accordance with its
request of December 1995 and shall have implemented such tariff increase,
including the accompanying sewerage tariff and environmental charges;

      (c)   the Borrower shall have completed a mathematical dispersion
model of septage components at the selected sea disposal site, in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and

      (d)   an agreement for the lease of land and other facilities
necessary for the construction of the barge loading stations at Napindan
and Estero de Vitas shall have been executed by the Borrower and DPWH
and is in full force and effect.

      Section 7.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE VIII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01.  The Administrator of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 8.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            PANGASIWAAN NG TUBIG AT
              ALKANTARILYA SA METRO MANILA
            Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
            Katipunan Road, Balara,
            Quezon City 1105, Philippines

            Cable address:           Telex:

MWSS PH            (722) 27947 MWSS PH

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:           Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD          248423 (MCI) or
                  Washington, D.C.    64145 (MCI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS
                          AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM

                        By /s/ Angel L. Lazaro III
                                          Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Harold Messenger
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                              East Asia and Pacific

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated               % of
                          (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)       to be financed

(1)    Civil works         31,000,000            100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures

(2)    Goods and            6,800,000            100% of foreign
       materials                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 65% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally

(3)    Consultants’          8,6000,000          100%

services and training

(4)    Unallocated           10,600,000
                             __________

       TOTAL                 57,000,000
                             ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Category 3
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after July 15, 1995.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:

      (a)   civil works under contracts not exceeding $5,000,000
equivalent;

      (b)   goods and materials under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000
equivalent;

      (c)   consultants’ services under contracts with firms or
individuals not exceeding $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent, respectively;
and

      (d)   training;

all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.

                               SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a)
reduce the pollution of Metro Manila waterways and Manila Bay; (b) reduce
the health hazards associated with human exposure to sewerage in Metro
Manila; and (c) establish a gradual low-cost improvement of sewerage
services in Metro Manila by expanding the Borrower’s septage management
program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

PART A:     Construction of:

1.    a pilot septage treatment plant at Dagat-Dagatan with a capacity of
about 200 cubic meters per day (m3/d); and

2.    three barge-loading stations at Napindan, Estero de Vistas and
Paranaque, each with a capacity to transfer about 500 m3/d of septage
from collecting vehicles to barges.

PART B:

1.    Upgrading of the Metro Manila central sewerage system, including
the repair of defective pipes and pumping stations and minimizing of the

entry of rain water to the system.

2.    Upgrading of the Ayala sewerage system, including the repair of
the pumping station and sedimentation tanks to provide mechanical
treatment of septage.

3.    Construction of about 10,000 new sewer connections in Metro Manila.

PART C:

      Strengthening of the Borrower’s central laboratory through the
provision of specialized furniture, equipment and materials.

PART D:

      Strengthening of the technical capabilities of SSD to operate and
maintain sewerage systems through the provision of staff training,
vehicles, machinery and tools, and consultants’ services.

PART E:

      Strengthening of the Borrower’s technical capabilities in
construction supervision, development of a pilot septage management
program, environmental monitoring and preparation of follow-up sewerage
and water supply projects, through the provision of consultants’ services.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                      Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

January 1, 2002                                  1,105,000
July 1, 2002                                     1,145,000
January 1, 2003                                  1,185,000
July 1, 2003                                     1,225,000
January 1, 2004                                  1,270,000
July 1, 2004                                     1,315,000
January 1, 2005                                  1,360,000
July 1, 2005                                     1,405,000
January 1, 2006                                  1,455,000
July 1, 2006                                     1,505,000
January 1, 2007                                  1,560,000
July 1, 2007                                     1,615,000
January 1, 2008                                  1,670,000
July 1, 2008                                     1,730,000
January 1, 2009                                  1,790,000
July 1, 2009                                     1,850,000
January 1, 2010                                  1,915,000
July 1, 2010                                     1,980,000
January 1, 2011                                  2,050,000
July 1, 2011                                     2,120,000
January 1, 2012                                  2,195,000
July 1, 2012                                     2,275,000
January 1, 2013                                  2,350,000
July 1, 2013                                     2,435,000
January 1, 2014                                  2,520,000
July 1, 2014                                     2,605,000
January 1, 2015                                  2,700,000
July 1, 2015                                     2,795,000
January 1, 2016                                  2,890,000
July 1, 2016                                     2,985,000

_____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,

Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                           Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                           The interest rate (expressed
                                           as a percentage per annum)
                                           applicable to the Loan on the
                                           day of prepayment multiplied
                                           by:

Not more than three years                           0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                           0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                             0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                      0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                     1.00
      maturity

                               SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     General

      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B:      International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.

2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:

      (a)   Prequalification

      Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in
      accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the
      Guidelines.

      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods

The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
      Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
      territory of the Guarantor.

Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures

      National Competitive Bidding

      (a)   Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent,
and (b) works under Part A (2) of the Project estimated to cost up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph.

2.    Prior Review

      With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost
$5,000,000 equivalent or more; and (b) goods estimated to cost
$1,000,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to:

      (a)   contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or

      (b)   contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.

      However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a critical nature,
as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) amendments to contracts for
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent
or above.

SCHEDULE 5

                         Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower declares its commitment to the Bank’s policies on
protection of the environment.  To this end, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prior to commencing work on each of Parts A (1) and (2) and
B (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, complete a detailed environmental
management plan acceptable to the Bank in respect of each such Part, in
accordance with the general measures set forth in the EMP;

      (b)   thereafter, carry out each such environmental management plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of such
environmental management plans, in accordance with indicators acceptable
to the Bank; and

      (d)   commencing on December 31, 1996, submit an annual monitoring
report regarding the implementation of such plans.

2.    The Borrower shall: (a) commencing in June 1997, furnish to the Bank
reports of annual audits performed by an independent agency acceptable to
the Bank, of its procedures to monitor and evaluate compliance with the
environmental management plans; and (b) in consultation with the Bank,
take all appropriate actions to ensure its compliance with such plans
taking into consideration the recommendations from such audits and the
Bank’s comments thereon.

3.    The Borrower shall establish by December 31, 1996 and, thereafter,
maintain an advisory panel comprising technical and management specialists
to advise on the pilot septage management operations under Part A of the
Project and on the evaluation of the designs of future septage treatment
plants.

4.    The Borrower shall take all actions necessary to enable it to adhere
to a timetable for cessation of sea disposal of septage acceptable to the
Bank.

5.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank and submit to the Bank:

      (a)   by March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing on
September 30, 1996, a semi-annual progress report on the implementation
of all components of the Project, which shall include revised project
cost estimates and implementing schedules; and

      (b)   (i)  by September 30, 1998, a report on the progress achieved
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) by
November 1, 1998, review such report with the Bank and, thereafter, take
all necessary actions to ensure the efficient completion of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof on the basis of the
conclusions and recommendations of said report and taking into
consideration the Bank’s view thereon.

                               SCHEDULE 6

                            Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect

of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower                  
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
                  as shall have been justified by said documents and
                  other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;

(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.