World Bank Document

CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3984 IND

                              Loan Agreement

            (Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project)

                                 between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                   and

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                             Dated March 29, 1996

                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3984 IND

                               LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods

produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."

      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
            III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "AARD" means the Borrower’s Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development in the Ministry of Agriculture;

      (b)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal
year commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

      (c)   "Kabupaten" means a district within a province, and
"Project Kabupaten" means a Kabupaten selected for
participation in the Project in agreement with the Bank;

      (d)   "Kecamatan" means a sub-district within a Kabupaten,
and "Project Kecamatan" means a sub-district selected for
participation in the Project;

      (e)   "Local Community Initiatives" means activities
selected for financing under the Project in accordance with the
criteria set out or referred to in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;

      (f)   "NAIAT" means the Borrower’s Naibonat Assessment
Institute for Agricultural Technology in Naibonat (NTT);

      (g)   "NTB" means the Borrower’s province of Nusa Tenggara
Barat;

      (h)   "NTT" means the Borrower’s province of Nusa Tenggara
Timur;

      (i)   "Rupiah" or "Rp" means the Borrower’s currency; and

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE II

                                  The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty seven million dollars
($27,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the

proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit
account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of
a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."

"(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
      Quarter."

            "(c)   (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III

                          Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project through AARD, and Parts B and C of the Project through
the NTB and NTT Provincial Development Planning Agencies
(BAPPEDA I), with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
engineering, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the
Project; and

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                             Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those

for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                                 Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 1139

Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia

            Cable address:                         Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY                     45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                         44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                         Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                       248423 (MCI)
                   Washington, D.C.                 64145 (MCI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                   By  /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                  Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By  /s/  Nicholas Hope
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works:                                 65%

    (a)  Part A.1 of
         the Project             200,000

    (b)  Part B.2 of
         the Project           4,700,000

    (c)  Part C.1 of
         the Project             500,000

(2) Equipment                                   100% of foreign
    (excluding vehicles)                        expenditures,
    and furniture:                              100% of local
                                                expenditures

(ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

    (a)  Part A.1 of
         the Project             400,000

    (b)  Part C.1 of
         the Project           1,000,000

(3) Agricultural inputs        1,300,000        90%
    (except fertilizers)
    under Part B of the
    Project

(4) Research and               1,000,000        90%
    development
    expenditures
    under Part A of the
    Project

(5) Survey, design               500,000        90%
    and mapping
    services

(6) Breeding animals           4,500,000        90%

(7) Goods and works for        4,500,000        70%
    Local Community
    Initiatives

(8) Incremental
    operating
    expenditures:

    (a)  Part A of
         the Project            800,000        60% in FY 1996/97
                                               and FY 1997/98;
                                               50% in FY 1998/99
                                               and FY 1999/2000;
                                               and 40% in FY 2000/01
                                               and thereafter

    (b)  Parts B and C          2,300,000      60% in FY 1996/97
         of the Project                        and FY 1997/98;
                                               50% in FY 1998/99
                                               and FY 1999/2000;
                                               and 40% in FY 2000/01
                                               and thereafter

 (9) Consultants’                              100%
    services and
    training:

    (a)  Part A of              1,200,000
         the Project

    (b)  Parts B and C          1,500,000
         of the Project

(10) Unallocated                2,600,000
                               __________

         TOTAL                 27,000,000
                               ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in

the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "incremental operating expenditures" means
expenditures on account of the Project by the Project
management units and the Project implementation units for
travel, per diem, supplies, and maintenance (but excluding
salaries); and

      (d)   the term "research and development" means
expenditures for materials, wages of field labor, honoraria and
travel expenses for AARD research staff, salaries and travel
expenses for contract (including university) research staff.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods and works under contracts costing
less than $100,000 equivalent (including civil works,
equipment, furniture, agricultural inputs,  breeding  animals,
and  Local  Community  Initiatives); (ii) contracts for the
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals
valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (iii) research
and development expenditures, survey, design and mapping
expenditures, incremental operating expenditures, and training
expenditures, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                 SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to raise smallholder
incomes and strengthen local level institutions and broad based
participation at the grassroots level, in the Borrower’s
provinces of Nusa Tenggara Barat and Nusa Tenggara Timur.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Establishment of the Naibonat Assessment Institute
            for Agricultural Technology

1.    Establishment and operation of NAIAT, including:

      (a)   establishment in NTB and in NTT of a Regional
Advisory Committee for policy and management advice and a
Regional Technical Working Group for technical support;

      (b)   development of a regional research and development
master plan, a human resource development program, and a
management information service program;

      (c)   construction in NTT of (i) a liaison office at
Kupang, (ii) a seed cold storage unit, a drying floor and a
soil preparation facility at Naibonat, and (iii) an irrigation
system for about fifty hectares at the Livestock Research
Station at Lili, and provision of related furniture and
equipment;

      (d)   conversion of part of the Mataram installation of
NAIAT in NTB to a liaison office, and construction of a general

service laboratory building and three staff houses at Mataram
in Lombok, and provision of related furniture and equipment;
and

      (e)   provision of (i) computer systems and vehicles to
NAIAT and its sub-bases, (ii) a boat for the Maumere sub-base,
(iii) journals, periodicals and textbooks to NAIAT and its sub-
bases libraries, and (iv) honoraria and allowances for NAIAT
research staff.

2.    Carrying out of the following studies in NTB and NTT:

      (a)   detailed studies of the agro-ecological zones; and

      (b)   study of the impact of cattle trade regulations on
farmer income.

3.    Provision of local training for masters, doctorate, and
short-term non-degree and diploma for AARD staff to strengthen
research and development capabilities within NAIAT.

4.    Strengthening agricultural research and development
capabilities at NAIAT through:

      (a)   provision of technical guidance for the enhancement
of farming systems research; and

      (b)   establishment of research and development
collaboration with international research centers, twinning
arrangements between NAIAT and one international center, and
collaboration with the private sector, local universities and
community organizations.

5.    Agricultural technology generation and dissemination
through:

      (a)   carrying out of trials of improved and new technology
under farmer and field station conditions;

      (b)   provision of inputs and technical guidance for
dryland field demonstrations;

      (c)   dissemination of technology recommendations through
field days, workshops, and production of relevant publications,
slides and videos; and

      (d)   provision of travel, per diem and allowances to
relevant research and extension staff.

Part B:     Agriculture-Based Area Development

1.    Agricultural development in NTB and NTT through:

      (a)    intensification of agricultural production systems
in village irrigation schemes where water control structures
have been rehabilitated or improved, including establishment of
demonstration plots to demonstrate the effects of improved crop
production technology;

      (b)   carrying out of a pilot program to introduce dryland
farming systems technology and soil conservation techniques,
including the provision of seedlings, seeds, fertilizers,
tools, and equipment to farmers;

      (c)   introduction and demonstration of intensive
smallholder livestock management systems, integrated with
dryland crop development, including distribution of breeding
cattle and water buffaloes, and development of forage crops;

      (d)   vaccination of chickens against Newcastle disease;

      (e)   demonstration of intensified house plot cultivation

systems, including provision of inputs, tools and equipment;
and

      (f)   provision of technical training for provincial and
Kabupaten government agencies’ staff, extension workers,
farmers and village leaders.

2.    Construction of bridges, culverts and road sections on
farm-to-market roads in Project Kecamatans, except Project
Kecamatans on Lombok.

3.    Carrying out of  Local Community Initiatives.

4.    Provision of support for local community organizations in
fourteen Project Kabupatens to assist in the development of
Local Community Initiatives.

Part C:     Strengthening Agricultural Support Services and Project
            Administration

1.    Strengthening extension facilities in NTB and NTT
through:

      (a)   rehabilitation of about 18 rural extension centers
and about 11 animal health centers, construction of two new
rural extension centers and about 11 new animal health centers,
and improvement of about 14 seed farms, including provision of
related furniture, equipment and computers; and

      (b)   provision of vehicles and motorcycles for field
services.

2.    Strengthening Project administration capabilities
through:

      (a)   provision of training to provincial, Kabupaten and
field level staff in Project management, monitoring and
evaluation, financial management, and planning and
implementation of local community development activities;

      (b)   provision of training to farmers and village leaders
in planning and implementation of local community development
activities; and

      (c)   mapping of Project Kecamatans to serve as a basis for
improved planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation
of development activities.

                                    * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.

                                 SCHEDULE 3

                            Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

November 15, 2001                                  520,000
May 15, 2002                                       540,000
November 15, 2002                                  555,000
May 15, 2003                                       575,000
November 15, 2003                                  600,000
May 15, 2004                                       620,000
November 15, 2004                                  640,000
May 15, 2005                                       665,000
November 15, 2005                                  685,000
May 15, 2006                                       710,000
November 15, 2006                                  735,000
May 15, 2007                                       760,000
November 15, 2007                                  790,000

May 15, 2008                                       815,000
November 15, 2008                                  845,000
May 15, 2009                                       875,000
November 15, 2009                                  905,000
May 15, 2010                                       940,000
November 15, 2010                                  970,000
May 15, 2011                                     1,005,000
November 15, 2011                                1,040,000
May 15, 2012                                     1,080,000
November 15, 2012                                1,115,000
May 15, 2013                                     1,155,000
November 15, 2013                                1,195,000
May 15, 2014                                     1,240,000
November 15, 2014                                1,285,000
May 15, 2015                                     1,330,000
November 15, 2015                                1,375,000
May 15, 2016                                     1,435,000
_____________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                           Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage per
                                           annum) applicable to the
                                           Loan on the day of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:

Not more than three years                           0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                           0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                             0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                      0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                     1.00
      maturity

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                    Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     General

      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of

this Section, as applicable.

Part B:     Procurement Procedures

1.    National Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part B,
civil works and goods shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.

2.    National Shopping

      Goods, except agricultural inputs, estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, and agricultural inputs,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.    Procurement of Small Works

      Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to complete the contract successfully.

4.    Force Account

      Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the
Guidelines, and costing $8,000,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out
by force account in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph of the Guidelines.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

      With respect to (i) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, (ii) the first contract for
civil works in NTB and in NTT estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000, and (iii) the first contract for goods
in NTB and in NTT estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                 SCHEDULE 5

                           Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1998,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and

      (c)   review with the Bank, by October 31, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank’s views on the matter.

2.    In carrying out Part A.2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower
shall:

      (a)   not later than June 30, 1997,  furnish the
recommendations of the study to the Bank for comments; and

      (b)   thereafter, prepare an action plan taking into
account the recommendations of the study and the comments of
the Bank thereon.

3.    In carrying out Part B.1 (c) of the Project, the Borrower

shall ensure that the second and third born calves of
beneficiaries of cattle and buffalo distribution programs are
redistributed among other interested farmers or put up for sale
to cover part of the operating costs of the livestock support
services.

4.    In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:

      (a)   ensure that funding for road improvement works shall
not exceed $250,000 equivalent for each Project Kecamatan; and

      (b)   ensure that priority is given to villages where needs
are demonstrated to be highest, the villagers are committed to
actively contribute to the implementation of the road works,
and the local government has agreed to maintain the completed
works.

5.    The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the
Project, a Project management unit in each of the participating
Kabupatens, with competent staff in adequate numbers.

6.    In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower
shall select Local Community Initiatives in accordance with the
criteria set out or referred to in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

7.    In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall rehabilitate or construct a facility only after receiving
from the relevant Kabupaten an integrated management plan for
such  facility,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  which  shall
include: (i) staffing levels; (ii) an estimate and source of
annual funding requirements to support a successful operation;
(iii) the expected benefits to area farmers; and (iv) planned
types and levels of user fees or other cost recovery systems,
if applicable.

8.    The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required for the
carrying out of the Project in accordance with a schedule and
timetable agreed with the Bank.

9.    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments:

      (a)    not later than September 30 in each year, commencing
September 30, 1996, and until completion of the Project, a
coordinated work program and cost estimates for the Project for
the following Fiscal Year; and

      (b)   not later than December 31 in each year, commencing
December 31, 1996, and until completion of the Project, a
coordinated budget proposal for the agreed provincial work
programs under the Project.

                               SCHEDULE 6

           Criteria for Selection of Local Community Initiatives

      The Project will support implementation of Local Community
Initiatives which are considered to be of a high priority by
the relevant community. Such Initiative shall be agriculture
based and result in direct benefits to such community.

      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall select Local Community Initiatives in accordance with the
following provisions:

1.    The Project Management Unit of each participating
Kabupaten shall be responsible for the selection of the
initiatives.

2.    Criteria to be used in the selection of a proposal:

(a)   the proposal shall be technically feasible,
            economically justifiable and be a productive
            activity;

      (b)   maximum amount per Initiative: Rp 10,000,000;

      (c)   maximum amount per household: Rp 250,000;

      (d)   minimum number of households per Initiative: 10; and

      (e)   contributions by households to include locally
            available materials, unskilled labor, and, where
            required, land.

3.    Preference shall be given to proposals:

      (a)   that benefit the poorest segment of the community;

      (b)   that involve women’s and youth groups;

      (c)   that are assisted by local community organizations;

      (d)   that have the lowest risk of failure; and

      (e)   where the socio-economic impact is greatest.

4.    Procurement procedures shall be as set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

                                 SCHEDULE 7

                               Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $800,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the  Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank

shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment                   is 
requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                   deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                   the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                   Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                   amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                   documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.