d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                     CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3079 ZIM

                          Loan Agreement

          (Urban Sector and Regional Development Project)

                              between

                             ZIMBABWE

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 7, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3079 ZIM

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1990, between ZIMBABWE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) in
an amount equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and SIDA;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), a loan (the KfW Loan), in an amount equivalent
to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and KfW; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "MLGRUD" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local
Government, Rural and Urban Development;

      (c)   "MPCNH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public
Construction and National Housing;

      (d)   "ZESA" means the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority;

   (e) "Local Authorities" means the Borrower’s Urban Councils and
Rural District Councils;

      (f)   "Eligible Local Authorities" means the Local Authorities
designated as Eligible Local Authorities under the Project by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on the basis of criteria
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and with which the Borrower
shall have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Building Societies" means the Central African Building
Society, the Beverly Building Society and the Founders Building
Society;

      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered
into between the Borrower and the entities referred to in Section
3.02 of the Loan Agreement, as may be amended from time to time and
such terms includes all schedules to such Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (i)   "Project Implementation Agencies" means MLGRUD, MPCNH,
the Eligible Local Authorities, ZESA and the Building Societies;

      (j)   "Cofinancing Agreements" means the SIDA Grant Agreement
and the KfW Loan Agreement, collectively;

      (k)   "First Urban Project" means the Project described in
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement dated September 24, 1984, between
the Borrower and the Bank;

      (l)   "PSIP" means the Borrower’s Public Sector Investment
Program;

      (m)   "FPP" means a Financial Performance Plan to be prepared
by each Eligible Local Authority;

      (n)   "Allottee" means a person to whom an Eligible Local
Authority sells a plot developed under Part B.l of the Project;

      (o)   "Sub-project" means a specific investment to be carried
out by an Eligible Local Authority after approval under the PSIP
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and

      (p)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to any Project Implementation Agency out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lent to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty million
dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rats for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (l/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October l in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April l and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the ProJect

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MLGRUD, MPCNH, ZESA, the Eligible Local Authorities and the Building
Societies as indicated in said Schedule, with due diligence and
efficiency in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and urban development principles and practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall allocate not less than 60% of
its annual budgetary provisions for housing projects to finance part
of the costs of Part B.l of the Project.

      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A and
B of the Project, excluding those allocated for electricity facilities,
to Eligible Local Authorities under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and such entities under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including
those set forth in Parts B and C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (b)   relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated to electricity
facilities under Parts A and B of the Project to ZESA under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ZESA under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank, including those set forth in Part D of Schedule 5 to

this Agreement;

      (c)   relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated for the
acquisition of computer equipment to the Building Societies under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and each of such entities under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in Part E
of Schedule 5 of this Agreement; and

      (d)   exercise its rights under each of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Local
Authority to:

      (a)   establish a revolving account in an approved financial
institution into which the proceeds of sales of plots prepared under
the Project shall be deposited, such account to be maintained on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank and
to be used exclusively to finance housing infrastructure
development;

      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, by not
later than November 30, 1990, a FPP in form and substance
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and

      (c)   carry out its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial principles and practices and meet financial targets
which are satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 3.05. Notwithstanding the generality of Section 9.06
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause each Eligible
Local Authority to furnish to the Bank for its review and comment
prior to initiating bidding or procurement procedures, the final
standards and designs for community facilities to be constructed
under Part B.2 of the Project in each such Eligible Local Authority.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
policy of self-managed progressive housing construction and to that
end, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause each Eligible Local Authority to institute the standards, to
apply the eligibility criteria and to establish procedures set forth
in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement in the allocation of plots
to Allottees under the Project.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out, not later than
September 30 each year, a review of the performance of the Building
Societies under Part C.2 of the Project with a view to ensuring the
competitiveness of the Building Societies in mobilizing savings. The
results of such review and any action proposed to be taken by the
Borrower shall be communicated to the Bank for its comments.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of MLGRUD and MPCNH and other
departments of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof; and (b) cause the Eligible Local Authorities,
ZESA and the Building Societies to maintain records and accounts

adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of such Agencies.

      (c)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and the records,
                  accounts and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) of the Agencies referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section, and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account, for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as
                  soon as available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such year, and
                  in the case of the Agencies referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section, certified copies
                  of their financial statements for such year as so
                  audited, and for all other Project Implementation
                  Agencies and for the Special Account, the reports
                  of such audits by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such
                  other information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audits thereof as the Bank shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.

      (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain or cause to be retained, until at least
                  one year after the Bank has received the audit
                  report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (c) of this Section and that the
                  reports of such audits contain separate opinions
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Notwithstanding the generality of Section 4.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each Eligible Local
Authority to complete the record-keeping of its accounts for all its
fiscal years prior to fiscal year 1989 by not later than December
31, 1990, and shall cause such accounts for each such fiscal year or
years to be audited not later than nine months thereafter in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                          Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Local
Authority, ZESA and the Building Societies:

      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;

      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs In
accordance with sound administrative, financial, local government
and other relevant practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and

      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Eligible Local Authorities,
ZESA and the Building Societies will be able to perform their
respective obligations under this Agreement.

      (b)   The Law establishing each Eligible Local Authority, and
ZESA and the constituent instruments of the Building Societies shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of each such entity to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      (c)   The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (d)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the agreement providing
                        there for, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under

                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                            Termination

      Section 7.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                               ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Senior Minister of Finance, Economic,
Planning and Development, of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Senior Secretary
            Ministry of Finance, Economic
              Planning and Development
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway, Harare
            Zimbabwe

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    MINFIN 22141 ZW
                  Harare                    Zimbabwe

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                            64145 (WUI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  ZIMBABWE

                  By /s/ S. G. Chigwedere
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works related to:                           20%

    (a)  Sub-projects         33,300,000
         under Parts A
         and B of the
         Project

    (b)  Electrical            2,300,000
         reticulation
         related to
         Sub-projects
         under Parts A
         and B of the
         Project

    (c)  Infrastructure        1,300,000
         and facilities
         under Part E
         of the Project

(2) Goods, including:                           100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

    (a)  Equipment,           21,600,000
         vehicles and
         spare parts
         related to
         Sub-projects
         under Part A
         of the Project

    (b)  Equipment             1,300,000
         related to
         Sub-Projects

         under Part B
         of the Project

    (c)  Electrical            4,500,000
         reticulation
         equipment
         related to
         Sub-projects
         under Parts A
         and B of the
         Project

    (d)  Computer              6,300,000
         equipment
         under Part C
         of the Project

    (e)  Vehicles and          1,200,000
         equipment
         under Parts E
         and F of the
         Project

(3) Unallocated                8,200,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                80,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   payments under Categories (1), and (2) (a) and (b) to
any Eligible Local Authority unless and until:

            (i)   the sub-project concerned has been approved in
                  accordance with the relevant provisions of
                  Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

            (ii)  the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan
                  Agreement with the Eligible Local Authority in
                  accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02
                  (a) of this Agreement;

      (c)   payments made under Categories l (b) and 2 (c) unless
and until:

            (i)   the electrical reticulation equipment for the
                  Sub-project concerned has been approved pursuant
                  to paragraph 6 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this
                  Agreement; and

            (ii)  the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan
                  Agreement with ZESA in accordance with the provi-
                  sions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (d)   payments under Category (2) (d) unless and until the
Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the

respective Building Society in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower,
inter alia, in: (i) providing support to urban areas to supply the
additional services required to cope with rapid population growth;
(ii) ensuring adequate levels of maintenance of the existing capital
assets of its urban areas; (iii) strengthening institutional
capacities to appraise proposed investments in its urban areas; (iv)
supporting training programs for its Local Authorities to enhance
delivery of urban services and to ensure the continued financial
viability of such Authorities; (v) maximizing the financial
participation of the private sector in housing supply; and (vi)
promoting the development of regional programs focussed on its small
towns and growth centers.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Primary Urban Infrastructure and Urban Service
            Maintenance (Eligible Local Authorities)

1.    Financing the carrying out of a program for the development of
primary infrastructure works in Eligible Local Authorities over a
five-year period, including the construction of water supply,
sewerage and drainage facilities and roads.

2.    Acquisition of vehicles, plant, equipment and related spare
parts for Eligible Local Authorities over a five-year period.

Part B:     Serviced Urban Residential Land and Related Community
            Services (Eligible Local Authorities)

1.    Financing the development of serviced residential plots in
selected areas in Eligible Local Authorities over a five-year
period, including serviced land for local commercial and industrial
requirements and infrastructure such as water, sewerage and
electricity networks, public lighting, roads and drainage.

2.    Construction of community facilities, including primary
schools and clinics (including equipment there for), market areas,
site administration offices and bus terminals ln the residential
areas included under Part B.l of the Project.

Part C:     Housing Finance (Building Societies)

1.    Making loans to selected beneficiaries by the Building
Societies.

2.    Acquisition of computing equipment to support the
administrative requirements of the expanded lending activities of
the Building Societies.

Part D:     Institutional Development (MLGRUD and MPCNH)

1.    Strengthening the institutional capacities of MLGRUD and MPCNH
to effectively undertake the appraisal of least cost and most
efficient investments in urban services, infrastructure and housing
under the Borrower’s PSIP process, including the acquisition of
vehicles and equipment.

2.    Supporting the Borrower’s Local Authorities in the preparation
of FPPs, and the completion of annual accounts and investment
submissions for review under the PSIP.

3.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Urban
Transport Unit in MLGRUD in developing and implementing urban
transport policy, including acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

4.    Strengthening the institutional capacities for urban
management of the Borrower’s Local Authorities, including the
carrying out of in-service training for professional,
sub-professional, technician and other skilled workers in the
Treasurers, Works/Engineers, and Community Service and Housing
Departments, and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

5.    Carrying out a study to assist MPCNH in the preparation of a
housing diversification program designed to include a range of
alternative area layouts and housing prototypes for higher
densities.

6.    Carrying out studies to assist in the improvement of the
Borrower policy framework for monitoring local authority financial
performance and for determining specific criteria for providing
assistance to them.

Part E:     Pilot Regional Development Program (MLGRUD)

1.    Preparation of the Harare Combination Development Plan, the
Corridor Town Development and Investment Plan for the secondary
towns along the railway between Bulawayo and Mutare, and District
Development and Investment Plans for selected growth areas ln
Mashonaland East and Manicaland, with emphasis on the implementation
of employment generating programs including the carrying out of
appropriate studies.

2.    Acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

3.    Financing of a capital fund for investment in selected
development programs including, but not limited to, infrastructure
works for industrial estates.

Part F:     Project Administration and Monitoring (MLGRUD)

1.    Support for the operation of the Program Coordination and
Monitoring Unit, and working committees in each of the Local
Authorities engaged in activities under the Project, to assist with
implementation of the Project.

2.    Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for Project
implementation.

                              *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

October 1, 1994                           1,470,000
April 1, 1995                             1,525,000
October 1, 1995                           1,585,000
April 1, 1996                             1,645,000
October 1, 1996                           1,705,000
April 1, 1997                             1,770,000
October 1, 1997                           1,840,000
April 1, 1998                             1,910,000
October 1, 1998                           1,985,000
April 1, 1999                             2,060,000
October 1, 1999                           2,140,000
April 1, 2000                             2,220,000
October 1, 2000                           2,305,000
April 1, 2001                             2,390,000
October 1, 2001                           2,485,000
April 1, 2002                             2,580,000

October 1, 2002                           2,680,000
April 1, 2003                             2,780,000
October 1, 2003                           2,885,000
April 1, 2004                             2,995,000
October 1, 2004                           3,110,000
April 1, 2005                             3,230,000
October 1, 2005                           3,355,000
April 1, 2006                             3,480,000
October 1, 2006                           3,615,000
April 1, 2007                             3,755,000
October 1, 2007                           3,895,000
April 1, 2008                             4,045,000
October 1, 2008                           4,200,000
April 1, 2009                             4,360,000
                                             __________
                                    TOTAL    80,000,000
_______________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

Time of Prepayment                              Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the balance
                                    outstanding on the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
   before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
   not more than six years
   before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
   not more than 11 years
   before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
   more than 16 years
   before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
   more than 18 years
   before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
   maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall

be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more each.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Zimbabwe may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Works which cannot be bulked in bidding packages estimated to
cost more than $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Bidders for such works shall be prequalified as described mutatis
mutandis in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines. In addition, the
following infrastructure works under Parts A.l and B of the Project
may be carried out by force account:

      (a)   road and drainage;

      (b)   trenching for water and sewerage reticulation;

      (c)   electrical reticulation, including street lighting;

      (d)   community facilities, including primary schools and
clinics, market areas, site administration offices and bus terminals
in residential areas.

2.    Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost less than
$250,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with the
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.

1.    Review of prequalification:

      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Such procedures shall also apply
mutatis mutandis to the prequalification of bidders under Part C.1
of this Schedule.

2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished

pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

A.    General

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee
established under the First Urban Project to provide oversight and
general guidelines on Project implementation. In addition, the
Borrower shall maintain the Program Coordination and Monitoring Unit
established under the said First Urban Project which will be
responsible to the Steering Committee and shall monitor the day-to-
day operations under the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that a
Program Coordinator, a senior municipal engineer and a senior
financial analyst for the Project Coordinating and Monitoring Unit
shall be appointed by December 31, 1989, and thereafter that the
Unit at all times has qualified and experienced staff assisted by an
adequate number of support staff. The Borrower shall also cause each
Eligible Local Authority to establish and maintain until the
completion of the ProJect, a working committee with a designated
project coordinator to liaise with the Program Coordination and
Monitoring Unit.

B.    Part A of the Project

1.    In order to assist MLGRUD in carrying out Parts A and B.2 of
the Project, the Borrower shall ensure by not later than December
31, 1989, that three financial analysts and two municipal engineers
shall be appointed.

2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the following
procedures and principal terms and conditions shall apply to
Sub-projects and Subsidiary Loan Agreements under Part A of the
Project.

      Procedures

3.    Sub-projects under Part A of the Project shall be submitted by
each Eligible Local Authority to MLGRUD under the Borrower’s PSIP
procedures. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, for all
Eligible Local Authorities, no expenditures for goods or works
required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out ofthe proceeds of the 
Loan unless: (A) the Sub-loan for such Sub
project shall have been approved by the Bank; or (B) the Sub-loan
for such Sub-Project shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the
Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account; and
(c) such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph 5 (b) of this
Part B in respect of such Sub-loan.

4.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, a free-limit Subloan
shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project in an amount to be financed
from the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed $5,000,000
equivalent.

5.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of Eligible Local Authority and the

appraisal of the Sub-project, including a complete list and
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan
to be made to an Eligible Local Authority shall contain a summary
description of Eligible Local Authority and Sub-project, including
a description of the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.

6.    Electricity reticulation to be carried out by ZESA shall be
separated out in order to facilitate the on-lending arrangements
between the Borrower and ZESA.

7.    Applications for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be
bulked to the maximum extent practicable.

      Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project

8.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
goods and works required for the carrying out of the Sub-project.

9.    The aggregate amount on-lent by the Borrower to each Eligible
Local Authority under Part A of the Project shall be repaid in 25
years, including a grace period of 3 years, at the prevailing
interest rate established by the Borrower for loans made by MLGRUD
under its General Development Loan Program to Local Authorities.

      Criteria

10.   Each Sub-project for which a Sub-loan is made or is to be made
shall meet the criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank for
the Selection and Appraisal of Primary Infrastructure Projects.

C.    Part B of the Project

1.    In order to assist MPCNH in carrying out Part B.l of the
Project, the Borrower shall ensure that by not later than December
31, 1989, a civil engineer, an architect/planner and a quantity
surveyor shall be appointed. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the following procedures and principal terms and conditions
shall apply to Sub-projects and Subsidiary Loan Agreements under
Part B of the Project.

      Procedures

2.    Sub-projects under Part B.l of the Project shall be submitted
by each Eligible Local Authority to MPCNH under the Borrower’s PSIP
procedures. Sub-projects under Part B.2 of the Project shall be
submitted by each Eligible Local Authority to MLGRUD under the
Borrower’s PSIP procedures.

3.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, for all Eligible
Local Authorities, no expenditures for goods or works required for
a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless: (A) the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have
been approved by the Bank; or (B) the Sub-loan for such Subproject
shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account; and (c) such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application
and information required under paragraph 5 (b) of this Part C in
respect of such Sub-loan.

4.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, a free-limit Subloan
shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project in an amount to be financed
from the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed $5,000,000

equivalent.

5.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of Eligible Local Authority and the
appraisal of the Sub-project, including a complete list and
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan
to be made to an Eligible Local Authority shall contain a summary
description of Eligible Local Authority and Sub-project, including
a description of the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.

6.    Electricity reticulation to be carried out by ZESA shall be
separated out in order to facilitate the on-lending arrangements
between the Borrower and ZESA.

7.    Applications for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be
bulked to the maximum extent practicable.

      Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans under Part B of the Project

8.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of the Borrower (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
goods and works required for the carrying out of the Subproject.

9.    The aggregate amount onlent by the Borrower to each Eligible
Local Authority under Part B of the Project shall be repaid in 25
years, including a grace period of 3 years, at the prevailing
interest rate established by the Borrower for loans made by MPCNH
under its National Housing Fund and amounts onlent for the purposes
of Part B.2 shall be on the terms and conditions set forth in
paragraphs 8 and 9 of Part B of this Schedule.

      Criteria

10.   Each Sub-project for which a Sub-loan is made or is to be made
from the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall
meet the criteria agreed between the Borrower and the Bank for the
Selection and Appraisal of Primary Housing Projects.

      Standards, Eligibility Criteria and Allocation Procedures for
      Allottees under Part B of the Project

11.   In accordance with the Borrower’s commitment to the policy of
self-managed progressive housing development as stated in Section
3.06 of this Agreement:

      (a)   each Allottee shall be permitted to occupy a plot on the
completion of a first phase of construction which shall comprise at
least one room and ablution facility;

      (b)   construction of the said first phase shall be undertaken
with a view toward completion of a four-room core house in 18
months; and

      (c)   extensions to the time period may be granted wherever
appropriate taking into consideration the Allottee’s ability to
service debt to be incurred for such construction.

12.   Criteria for determining eligibility for a plot under Part 8
of the Project shall be those currently used by the Borrower’s Local
Authorities which are as follows:

      (a)   the Allottee:

            (i)   shall be a resident in the area of jurisdiction
                  of the Eligible Local Authority;

            (ii)  shall be employed in the area of jurisdiction of
                  the Eligible Local Authority;

            (iii) does not own any residential property in the area
                  of jurisdiction of the Eligible Local Authority
                  or, in the case of renters, makes arrangements
                  satisfactory to the Eligible Local Authority for
                  relinquishing any lease on allocation of a plot
                  before such renter is allocated a plot;

            (iv)  shall be a person with at least one dependent
                  residing with him or her;

            (v)   shall not earn more than one thousand Zimbabwe
                  Dollars (Z$1000) per month, subject to the
                  provisions of paragraphs 12, 13, 14 and 15 of
                  this Part C of this Schedule; and

            (vi)  shall be ranked sequentially on the waiting list
                  with priority being given to length of employment
                  in the area of jurisdiction of the Eligible Local
                  Authority, such waiting list to be updated
                  annually to ensure that all applications are
                  current.

      (b)   Any changes to the foregoing eligibility criteria shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.

13.   Plots shall be allocated to Allottees as they become available
in accordance with the ranked waiting list of eligible applicants as
determined pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 12 above.

14.   Each Local Authority shall establish such systems as are
necessary to ensure that 40% of plot allocations shall be made to
Allottees whose household income is less than four hundred and fifty
Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$450) per month, 30% to Allottees whose household
income is less than six hundred and fifty Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$650)
per month and 30% to Allottees whose household income is less than
one thousand Zimbabwe Dollars (Z$1000) per month.

15.   The income requirements set forth in paragraph 14 above shall
be reviewed annually jointly by the Borrower and the Bank.

16.   Each Eligible Local Authority shall make plot sales on terms
whereby each Eligible Local Authority shall obtain, by written
agreements or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and each such
Eligible Local Authority, including the right of representatives of
the Bank to visit such sites and the right of the Eligible Local
Authority to suspend or terminate the rights of the Allottee to a
plot upon failure by such Allottee to perform its obligations under
its agreement with the Eligible Local Authority.

D.    Electricity Facilities under Parts A and B of the Project

      The proceeds of the Loan allocated for the carrying out of
electricity facilities by ZESA under Parts A and B of the Project
shall be relent by the Borrower to ZESA and shall be repaid in 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the prevailing
interest rate established by the Borrower for loans to its
parastatal organizations.

E.    Part C of the Project

1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the principal terms
and conditions set forth in this Part E shall apply for the purposes
of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and each of the

Building Societies for the carrying out of Part C.2 of the Project.

2.    The proceeds of the Loan allocated for the acquisition of
computing equipment allocated to each Building Society shall be
relent to each such Building Society at the prevailing prime rate of
interest in Zimbabwe plus a percentage to cover the foreign exchange
risk.

3.    The Subsidiary Loan Agreements with Building Societies shall,
in addition, contain provisions pursuant to which:

      (a)   each Building Society shall take all such action
required on its part to assist in the carrying out of Part C of the
Project, including the provision of mortgages to Allottees in all
target income groups, subject to its applicable policies, principles
and procedures;

      (b)   without limitation on its obligations under paragraph
(a) above and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, each Building Society shall agree to lend at least 25% of its
aggregate annual principal amount of loans to Allottees whose
household income is six hundred and fifty Zimbabwe dollars (Z$650)
per month and below, and subject further to the provisions of
paragraph 15 of Part C of this Schedule;

      (c)   each Building Society shall furnish periodically per-
formance reports on its lending operations to the Borrower.

      (d)   each Building Society shall apply criteria consistent
with those set forth in Part C of this Schedule in the selection of
borrowers who are to construct houses on plots allocated by Eligible
Local Authorities under the Project.

F.    Part D of the Project

      In order to assist the Local Authorities in the carrying out
of their functions, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank for its review, a training program for the Local Authorities
which shall cover the scope and terms of reference for such program.
After review of the program with the Bank, the Borrower shall carry
out a program satisfactory to the Bank.

G.    Part E of the Project

      Part E of the Project shall be implemented by MLGRUD. For this
purpose, the Borrower shall establish appropriate procedures to
ensure that effective coordination exists between the Departments,
Local Authorities and statutory bodies of the Borrower involved with
the implementation of the said Part E of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth ln the table ln paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this

Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been made out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All
                  such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                  amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                  documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the

Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

