d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3275 JM

      (Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance Project)

                              between

                              JAMAICA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 12, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3275 JM

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 1990, between JAMAICA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Bank of Jamaica;

      (b)   "Eligible Investments" means works of the Road Infra-
structure Investment Program which have been approved by the Bank
for financing under the Loan;

      (c)   "Jamaican dollars" or "J$" means the Borrower’s
currency;

      (d)   "MOC(W)" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Construction
(Works);

      (e)   "National Road Transport Sector" means all activities
pertaining to the movement by roads throughout the Borrower’s
territory of people and goods including, without limitation, plan-
ning, design, construction, acquisition, operation and maintenance
of all road transportation infrastructure, equipment, material,
facilities and operational systems;

      (f)   "Road Infrastructure Investment Program" means the
Borrower’s five-year road infrastructure investment program fur-
nished by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank on October 10,
1990, as updated from time to time; and

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semes-
ter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  there-of as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. MOC(W) is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOC(W)
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   at all times cause its: (i) public roads network to be
maintained and all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate practices; and (ii) road maintenance
equipment to be maintained and all necessary repairs, renewals and
replacements thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
economic and engineering practices;

      (b)   make available, promptly as needed, all funds (making
the corresponding annual budgetary appropriations), facilities,
services and other resources required for the above purposes; and

      (c)   without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) provide in   its
annual budget, and make available promptly as needed, in J$
equivalent, as counterpart funds for road maintenance under its
Road Infrastructure Investment Program each fiscal year, until
completion of the Project, a minimum of: (A) $20,000,000 for fiscal
year 1991/1992; (B) $21,000,000 for fiscal year 1992/1993; (C)
$22,000,000 for fiscal year 1993/1994; (D) $23,000,000 for fiscal
year 1994/1995; and (E) $24,000,000 for fiscal year 1995/1996; and
(ii) within thirty days after the date such budget is approved each
fiscal year, furnish to the Bank such budget showing the amounts
stipulated above.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than October 31 of each fiscal year, furnish
to the Bank the proposed annual update of the Road Infrastructure
Investment Program including Eligible Investments, which shall be
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (b)   from time to time advise the Bank of any additions or
modifications to the Road Infrastructure Investment Program as they
shall occur during the course of the fiscal year; and

      (c)   not later than November 30 of each fiscal year, review
with the Bank and all the cofinanciers of the Road Infrastructure
Investment Program, the proposed annual update referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, before commencing to exe-
cute, or committing funds for the execution of, a surface transport
investment estimated to cost $5,000,000 or more: (a) inform the Bank
of such investment and commitment, and of its assessment of the
impact of such investment on the Road Infrastructure Investment
Program and the Project; and (b) give the Bank an opportunity to
comment on such investment and commitment.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower agrees to maintain full cost
recovery in respect of the National Road Transport Sector, to advise
the Bank of any changes of policy or actions which would adversely
affect such cost recovery, and to afford the Bank an opportunity to
review and comment on such changes. Upon the Bank’s request, the
Borrower shall provide the Bank information, satisfactory to the
Bank, indicating the level of cost recovery in respect of such
National Road Transport Sector.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower agrees to maintain a pricing policy
for gasoline, diesel, lubricants and bitumen which, net of taxes,
shall be at all times not less than the opportunity cost of the
products in question. For purposes of this section, "opportunity
cost" means the CIF (cost, insurance and freight) cost in Jamaica of
the equivalent imported product.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of

                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the proce-dures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE V

                          Effective Date

      Section 5.01. The date March 12, 1991 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            30 National Heroes Circle
            Kingston 4
            Jamaica

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  Ministry of Finance             2447
                  Kingston

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                  Latin America and the Caribbean

                        JAMAICA

                        By /s/ Keith Johnson
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Eligible Invest-          25,500,000      68%
      ments

(2)   Equipment and Spare          400,000      100% of foreign
      Parts                                     expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures

(3)   Consultants’ Services      5,600,000      80%
      and Training

(4)   Unallocated                3,500,000
                                __________

           TOTAL                35,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of MOC(W) to plan, manage and maintain
the Borrower’s road infrastructure in a cost-effective manner;
(b) to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s investments in the
Borrower’s road transport sector; and (c) to improve road safety.

      The Project is part of the Road Infrastructure Investment
Program and it consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Institutional Strengthening

1.    Reorganization of MOC(W).

2.    Development of mechanisms to coordinate implementation of
externally funded projects within MOC(W).

3.    Provision of technical assistance for the development, imple-
mentation, management and supervision of the Road Infrastructure
Investment Program.

4.    Training of selected MOC(W) personnel in the development,
management, implementation and supervision of road infrastructure
investments.

5.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment for MOC(W) to
facilitate management of the road subsector.

6.    Studies on: (a) road users’ cost; and (b) flood water
management.

Part B:     Road Infrastructure Investments

      Carrying out of Eligible Investments.

Part C:     Road Equipment Management

      Improvement of MOC(W)’s equipment management capabilities
through: (a) the provision of equipment, spare parts and tools,
management consultants’ services; and (b) the setting up of a system
providing for staff accountability and responsibility.

Part D:     Road Safety Program

      Development and implementation of a road safety program
through: (a) the carrying out of a study on road safety; (b) the
provision of technical assistance to assist in developing and
implementing such road safety program and in the supervision there-
of; (c) the provision of equipment and materials required for such
program; and (d) the carrying out of media, printing and public
relations campaigns as well as the provision of other communications
services support as shall be acceptable to the Bank.

                   *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

      On each May 15 and November 15
            commencing May 15, 1996
            through    May 15, 2007              1,460,000

      and on November 15, 2007                   1,420,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a

                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Jamaica may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items: (a) for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract; and (b) for works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per contract, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items: (a) for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000; and (b) for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $750,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Eligible Investments for routine maintenance of road infra-
structure, and Eligible Investments for construction of new road
infrastructure not to exceed in the aggregate $500,000 equivalent,
may be carried out by force account of MOC(W) provided, however,
that the procedures and unit costs thereof are acceptable to the
Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final

contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract procured in accordance
with Part A above, and to the first two contracts of civil works and
goods procured in accordance with Part C.1 above, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be fur-nished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be fur-nished to
the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be fur-
nished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished
to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      Actions                              Date (by)

The Borrower shall:

1. (a)    Commence implementation
          of the road safety
          study included in
          Part D of the Project            December 31, 1991

   (b)    Furnish to the Bank
          its recommendations
          on the study referred
          to in 1 (a) above                December 31, 1992

   (c)    Review with the Bank
          the recommendations
          referred to in 1 (b)
          above                            March 30, 1993

2. (a)    Commence implementation
          of the road user cost
          study included in
          Part A.6 (a) of the Project      December 31, 1992

   (b)    Furnish to the Bank its
          recommendations on the
          study referred to in

          2 (a) above                      September 30, 1993

   (c)    Review with the Bank the
          recommendations referred
          to in 2 (b) above and
          a proposed plan of action
          to address issues raised
          in the study referred to
          in 2 (a) above                   December 31, 1993

   Actions                                 Date (by)

   (d)    Promptly after
          December 31, 1993
          commence implementation
          of such action plan re-
          vised as needed to take
          into account the Bank’s
          comments thereon

3. Appoint, under terms of
   reference including the term
   of their respective contracts,
   and with qualifications and
   experience, satisfactory to
   the Bank:

   (a)    a project director;              January 1, 1991

   (b)    a transport economist
          and a highway engineer;          January 31, 1991

   (c)    two project engineers;
          two equipment management
          consultants and an
          institutional specialist;
          and                              February 28, 1991

   (d)    an environmental
          specialist                       March 31, 1991

   Actions                                 Date (by)

4. Prepare, and furnish to the
   Bank, a written report on the
   progress achieved in the
   execution of, inter alia, the
   physical, financial and insti-
   tutional aspects of the Project.
   Each such report shall be of
   such scope and detail as the
   Bank shall reasonably request
   and shall include, inter alia,
   information indicating progress
   achieved, measured against key
   monitoring and evaluation               Not later than 30 days
   indicators acceptable to the            after the end of each
   Bank                                    quarter of each year

5. Furnish to the Bank a written
   report on the progress made
   during the previous year in
   the implementation of the Road
   Infrastructure Investment
   Program including other
   externally-funded projects.
   Each such report shall be of
   such scope and detail as the
   Bank shall reasonably request
   and shall include, inter alia,
   information indicating progress
   achieved, measured against key

   monitoring and evaluation
   indicators acceptable to the
   Bank                                    October 1 each year

   Actions                                 Date (by)

6. Carry out an equipment                  As agreed in the
   management program                      program approved by
   satisfactory to the Bank                the Borrower on
                                           September 19, 1990
                                           and furnished to the
                                           Bank on October 10,
                                           1990

7. Carry out a reorganization              As agreed in the
   of MOC(W) staff                         program approved by
   satisfactory to the Bank                the Borrower on
                                           September 19, 1990
                                           and furnished to the
                                           Bank on October 10,
                                           1990

8. Furnish to the Bank, as                 October 31 of each year
   part of the update of
   the Road Infrastructure
   Investment Program re-
   ferred to in Section 3.04
   of the Loan Agreement,
   evidence that any land
   required for construction
   activities included in
   such update for carrying
   out the following year has
   been duly acquired

9. In the event that any                   Prior to commencing
   investment to be                        investment
   included in the up-
   dates of the Road
   Infrastructure Invest-
   ment Program requires
   displacement or resettle-
   ment of population and
   upon the Bank’s request,
   carry out a resettlement
   plan for such population
   which shall be satisfactory
   to the Bank

                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories
other than Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $ 2,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that

the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to para- graph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, with-draw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible categories, and in the res-
pective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Sche-
dule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide

such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be;

      (b)   if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount;

      (c)   the Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account; and

      (d)   refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

