d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3172 JO

Loan Agreement

(Integrated Phosphate Project)

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT

between

and

JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES CO., LTD

Dated July 27, 1993

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3172  JO

                         LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1990,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JORDAN PHOSPHATE
MINES CO., LTD. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)  the Borrower has contracted from the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (the Kuwait Fund) and the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (the Arab Fund) loans in various
currencies in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately fifty-
four million four hundred thousand dollars ($54,400,000), to assist
in financing Parts A (1) and B (2) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth  in agreements entered into between the
Borrower and each of the Kuwait Fund and the Arab Fund,
respectively;

      (D)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund an
additional loan in various currencies in an aggregate amount
equivalent to approximately eight million one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($8,150,000), to assist in financing Part A (2) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Kuwait Fund Cofinancing Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;

      (E)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund an
additional loan in various currencies in an aggregate amount
equivalent to approximately eight million one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($8,150,000), to assist in financing Part A (2) of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Arab Fund Cofinancing Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Arab Fund;

      (F)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Islamic
Development Bank (IDB) a loan in various currencies in an aggregate
amount equivalent to approximately eleven million dollars
($11,000,000) to, inter alia, assist in financing Parts A (1) and B
(2) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)  "Articles of Association" means the Articles of
Association of the Borrower dated March 8, 1949, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;

      (b)  "By-laws" means the By-laws of the Borrower dated
April 29, 1987, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (c)  "Beneficiation Plant" means the Borrower’s Shidiya
phosphate beneficiation plant to be constructed pursuant to Part A
(1)of the Project in the Shidiya phosphate deposit (including the
Shidiya Mine) located in the south of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan approximately 50 kilometers south-east of the city of Ma’an
and 120 kilometers north-east of the port of Aqaba;

      (d)  "Fertilizer Plant" means the Borrower’s fertilizer plant
located 6 kilometers south-east of the port of Aqaba of the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan;

      (e)  "Investment Plan" means the Borrower’s five (5) year
investment plan for the Borrower’s planned future investments in
respect of its mining and fertilizer operations and finances;

      (f)  "Fiscal Year’, means the twelve-month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
coincides with the period January I to December 31 of each year; and

      (g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,

various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount  of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

       "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
    amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
    time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding

    Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
    the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
    Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
    outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
    at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

      "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
    the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the
    Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
    Quarter."

      "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
    on January 1, April 1, July I or October 1 in a calendar
    year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December I in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor a
guarantee
fee annually on December 1 on the amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest
Period equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount of interest payable
in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) establish, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter maintain, in
a form and with functions satisfactory to the Bank, a Project
Supervision and Cost Control Unit with the responsibility for the
overall day-to-day supervision and cost control of carrying out Part
A (1) (i) of the Project; and (ii) ensure that the said unit is
staffed with personnel in numbers and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the
supervision of the rehabilitation works and services to be carried
out under Part A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into
a Project Management Services Agreement with an engineering company
acceptable to the Bank, for the supervision of said rehabilitation,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and mining practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its facilities (including the Beneficiation Plant and the
Fertilizer Plant), machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with: (i) sound administrative,
engineering and financial practices; and (ii) environmental and
occupational health and safety standards acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of
Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall at all times
enforce and monitor the environmental and occupational health and
safety standards at the Beneficiation Plant and the Fertilizer
Plant, and ensure that said standards shall at all times be
maintained in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times take all
measures necessary to maintain its corporate existence, to carry on
its operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all such rights,
powers, privileges, franchises and interests in land and water as
shall be necessary or useful for its operations or the carrying out
of the Project.

      Section 4.05. Except in the normal course of its business, the
Borrower shall not, without the Bank’s prior consent, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets
(including the Shidiya Mine, the Beneficiation Plant and the
Fertilizer Plant) required for the efficient conduct of its business
or the carrying out of the Project.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts (including separate records and accounts for each of
the Beneficiation Plant and the Fertilizer Plant) adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.

  (b)   The Borrower shall:

      (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
           (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
           related statements) and the records and accounts for
           the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
           accordance with appropriate auditing principles
           consistently applied, by independent auditors
           acceptable to the Bank;

     (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
           case not later than six (6) months after the end of
           each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
           statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
           report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
           and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
           requested; and

    (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
           said records, accounts and financial statements as
           well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
           to time reasonably request.

  (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

      (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this

           Section, records and accounts reflecting such
           expenditures;

     (ii)  retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has
           received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
           the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
           all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
           receipts and other documents) evidencing such
           expenditures;

    (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
           records; and

     (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
           the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
           Section and that the report of such audit contains a
           separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
           statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
           year, together with the procedures and internal
           controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
           upon to support the related withdrawals.

  Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt after December 31, 1989, unless
the net revenues of the Borrower for the Fiscal Year immediately
preceding the date of such occurrence, or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to the date of such occurrence,  whichever is the
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding Fiscal Year
on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.

  (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any debt after December 31, 1989, if after the incurrence
of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 60 to
40.

  (c)  For purposes of this Section:

      (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
           maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the
           date on which it is originally incurred.

     (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
           contract or agreement or other instrument providing
           for such debt or for the modification of its terms of
           payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
           instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
           the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
           has been entered into.

    (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:

           (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                operations adjusted to take account of the
                Borrower’s prices in effect at the time of the
                incurrence of debt, even though they were not in
                effect during the twelve-month period to which
                such revenues relate and net nonoperating
                income; and

           (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                including administration, adequate maintenance,
                taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                excluding provision for depreciation, of the
                non-cash operating charges and interest and
                other charges on debt.

     (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
           difference between:

           (A)  revenues from all sources other than those
                related to operations; and

           (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
                in (A) above.

      (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means the
           aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking fund
           payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges
           on, debt.

     (vi)  The term "equity" means the sum of the total
           unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
           reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
           specific liabilities.

    (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
           necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
           Guarantor, debt payable in another currency such
           valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
           lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
           is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
           purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
           such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
           acceptable to the Bank.

  Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain, for each of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1989, a ratio of total working
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 0.8.

  (b)  Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

  (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

  (d)  For the purposes of this Section:

      (i)  The term "total working expenses’ means all expenses
           related to operations, including administration,
           adequate maintenance, taxes other than income taxes
           (if any), but excluding interest, other charges on
           debt, and depreciation.

     (ii)  The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
           from all sources related to operations.

  Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, in each Fiscal Year commencing
the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1990, update the Investment Plan
and provide the Bank with a copy of the said plan and each update
together with a complete set of financial projections for the Bank’s
review and comment at least six (6) months before the commencement
of each corresponding Fiscal Year.

                      ARTICLE VI

                 Remedies of the Bank

  Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

  (a)  The Articles of Association or the By-laws shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived as to, in the opinion of the
Bank, affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

  (b) (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

           (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
                the financing of the Project shall have been
                suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or
                in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                providing therefor, or

           (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

     (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
           the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
           Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
           termination or prematuring is not caused by the
           failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
           obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
           funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
           from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
           with the obligations of the Borrower under this
           Agreement.

  Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

  (a)  The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

  (b)  The event specified in subparagraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

                      ARTICLE VII

              Effective Date; Termination

  Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

  (a)  that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Kuwait Cofinancing Agreement, or the Borrower’s right to make
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled;

  (b)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Arab Fund Cofinancing Agreement, or the Borrower’s right to make
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and

  (c)   the Borrower shall have established the Project Supervision
and Cost Control Unit referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
pursuant to the  provisions thereof.

  Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of

Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                     ARTICLE VIII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

  Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.

  Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

  International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
  1818 H Street, N.W.
  Washington, D.C. 20433
  United States of America

  Cable address:                                Telex:

    INTBAFRAD                                   440098 (ITT),
    Washington, D.C.                            248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)

For the Borrower:

  Jordan Phosphate Mines Co., Ltd.
  P.O. Box 30
  Amman
  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

  Cable address:Telex:

    PHOSPHATE                                   21223, 22475
    Amman                                       FOSFAT JO

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.

           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

           By /s/ Ram K. Chopra
           Acting Regional Vice President
           Europe, Middle East and North Africa

           JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES CO., LTD.

           By /s/ Hussein A. Hammani
           Authorized Representative

                       SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)Goods and services:

   (i)   For Part A (1)       17,800,000        100% of foreign
         of the Project                         expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

   (ii)  For Part A (2)        3,000,000        100% of foreign
         of the Project                         expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)

(2)Unallocated                 4,200,000
                             ___________

       TOTAL                  25,000,000
                              ==========

2.For the purposes of this Schedule:

  (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor; and

  (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (i)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
           this Agreement; and

     (ii)  payments made for expenditures in respect of category
           (1) (ii) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
           this Agreement, unless the Borrower shall have entered
           into the Project Management Services Agreement
           referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement pursuant
           to the provisions thereof.

                        SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

  The objectives of the Project are: (i) to develop the Borrower’s
phosphate Beneficiation Plant facilities in order to expand the
Borrower’s capacity to produce and export phosphate ore; and (ii) to
rehabilitate the Borrower’s Fertilizer Plant in order to expand the
Borrower’s capacity to produce and export phosphate fertilizer.

  The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:  Production

(1) (i) The construction and commissioning of the Beneficiation
Plant with an output capacity of 1.5 mtpy consisting of, inter alia:
a dry screening plant, washing plant, flotation plant, dryers and
inter-connecting belt conveyor systems; and (ii) the construction of
facilities, including phosphate ore handling facilities, storage,
reclaim and loading facilities; and

(2)  The rehabilitation and expansion of the Fertilizer Plant.

Part B:  Infrastructure

(1) Expansion and development of the Borrower’s Shidiya Mine

housing and related facilities; and

(2) Construction and installation of the following supporting
infrastructure facilities in respect of the Beneficiation Plant and
Shidiya Mine housing and related facilities referred to in Parts A
(1) and B (1) of the Project, respectively: (i) power distribution
and telecommunications facilities; (ii) water supply, pipeline and
pumping facilities; (iii) workshops; (iv) warehouses and storage
facilities; and (v) administrative offices.

                       * * * *

  The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1

   beginning June 1, 1995
   through  June 1, 2006                      1,040,000

On December 1, 2006                           1,080,000

