d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3236 UNI

                          Loan Agreement

                   (Telecommunications Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                NIGERIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED

                      Dated December 10, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3236 UNI

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NIGERIAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED (the Borrower), a company established and
operating under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the
Guarantor).

      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreements of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the pro; preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower Pursue to an exchange of
letters dated April 16, 1987 and June 3, 1 between the Borrower and
the Bank;

      (c)   "Memorandum and Articles" means the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Borrower as attached to the
Certificate of Incorporation of the Borrower dated December 20, 1984
and as amended to the date of this Agreement; and

      (d)   "Project" means with respect to: (i) the Borrower, Parts
A and B of the Project; and (ii) with respect to the Guarantor, Part
C of the Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred twenty-five Milton dollars ($225,000,000)
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charges at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per

annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less thin six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administration, financial, engineering, public utility and
telecommunication practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in
form and with membership and functions satisfactory to the Bank the
Project Management Team required under Part A (2) of the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower
                        and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering, public utility and telecommunication
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, public utility and telecommunication practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers , or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) no later than October
31, 1990, furnish to the Bank for its comments the final draft of
the performance contract between the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(ii) by January 1, 1991, commence implementation of such performance
contract.

      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall reduce outstanding subscriber
receivables to the following days of billing: (i) 120 days by
December 31, l990; (ii) 90 days by December 31, 1992; and (iii) 60
days by December 31, 1994 and thereafter.

      Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall until completion of the
Project prepare annually for the Bank’s review a comparative
analysis of its actual performance against selected performance
target indicators satisfactory to the Bank including indicators
relating to technical, operational and financial performance,
subscriber connections, service quality, and staffing.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, with respect to performance
indicators for fiscal year 1991 and the years thereafter, determine
jointly with the Bank no later than October 31 of the year
immediately preceding the year in question, the indicators to be
applied in assessing the Borrower’s performance in any such

      (c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (i) no later
than six weeks after the close of each quarter reports showing
progress made by the Borrower in meeting technical and operational
target indicators for the quarter; and (ii) in each of its annual
financial statements a report showing progress made by the Borrower
in meeting financial target indicators for the fiscal year in
question.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for the Special Account for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; provided
                  that the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank (A)
                  its audited accounts for fiscal year 1988 not
                  later than 18 months after the close of the
                  fiscal year, (B) its unaudited accounts for
                  fiscal year 1989 not later than 12 months after
                  the close of the fiscal year; and (D) its
                  unaudited accounts for each such year; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise Agree,
the Borrower shall take all necessary action to earn, for each of
its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1989,
an annual return of not less than the following percentages of the

average current net value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in
operation, namely, 7% in fiscal year 1990 and lox in fiscal year
1991 and each fiscal year thereafter.

      (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  the Borrower’s net operating income for the
                  fiscal year in question by one half of the sum of
                  the current net value of the Borrower’s fixed
                  assets in operation at the beginning and at the
                  end of that fiscal year.

            (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.

            (iii) The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations.

            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                  depreciation on a straight line basis at a rate
                  of not less than 7.5% per annum of the average
                  current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed
                  assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to
                  the Bank, but excluding interest and other
                  charges on debt.

            (v)   The average current gross value of the Borrower’s
                  fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
                  one-half of the sum of the gross value of the
                  Borrower’s fixed assets in operation at the
                  beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
                  valued from time to time in accordance with sound
                  and consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.

            (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower’s
                  fixed assets in operation" means the gross of the
                  Borrower’s fixed assets in operation less the
                  amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
                  from time to time in accordance with sound and
                  consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce for its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1989 funds from internal sources
adequate to meet in full the local costs components of the annual
investment program of the Borrower.

      (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all
                  liabilities which will become due and payable or
                  could under circumstances then existing be called
                  for payment within twelve months, including
                  accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                  requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                  taxes, and dividends.

            (vi)  The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

            (vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations.

      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1989, incur any debt unless a
reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower
shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of the
Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower including the debt
to be incurred.

      For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                        instrument providing for such debt or for
                        the modification of its terms of payment on
                        the date of such contract, agreement or
                        instrument; and

                  (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date
                        the agreement providing for such guarantee
                        has been entered into.

            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations including administration,
                        adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                        depreciation, other non-cash operating
                        charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.

            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
                  payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

            (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                  months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                  question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                  accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                  notified the Borrower as to its acceptability,
                  provided that no event has occurred since such
                  notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material
                  adverse effect on the financing condition or
                  future operating results of the Borrower.

      Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 60 to
40.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section;

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other

            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:

                  (A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
                        instrument providing for such debt or for
                        the modification of its terms of payment on
                        the date of such contract, agreement or
                        instrument; and

                  (B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date
                        the agreement providing for such guarantee
                        has been entered into.

            (iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.

      Section 5.06. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 5.03, 5.04
and 5.05 of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing official
rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.07. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project, review with the Bank not later than October 31 each year
the composition of its capital expenditure program for the five
years immediately following each such review together with details
of the financing plan prepared for such program.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

            (i)   a change shall have been made in the Memorandum
                  and Articles so as to  materially and adversely
                  affect the financial condition of the Borrower or
                  the carrying out of the Project; and

            (ii)  subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or credit made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan or credit shall have become
                        due and payable prior to the agreed
                        maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:

                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and

                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and conditions consistent
                        with the obligations of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in Section 6.01 (a)(i) of this
Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in Section 6.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of
that Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Bank has been furnished with the Borrower’s audited
financial statements for fiscal year 1987; and

      (b)   the Borrower has: (i) employed project and financial
management consultants; and (ii) issued letters of invitation for
the procurement for the Project of the services of other consultants
required for the Project.

      Section 7.02. The date (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 o:
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of

Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Nigerian Telecommunications Limited
            3/5 Tafawa Balewa Square
            Lagos
            Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  _______                  11001
                  _______

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  NIGERIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED

                  By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                             SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Switching,               159,400,000        100% of foreign
    transmission                                expenditures
    and subscriber
    terminal
    equipment
    and cables

(2) Vehicles                  13,300,000        100% of foreign
    power and air-                              expenditures
    conditioning
    equipment,
    tools and test
    equipment

(3) Training (inclu-           6,100,000        100% of foreign
    ding equipment)                             expenditures
    and fellowships

(4) Consultants                6,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(5) Refunding of                 750,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(6) Unallocated               38,950,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               225,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of |the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support the
Guarantor’s efforts to develop sound policies for the telecommuni-
cations sector; (ii) to facilitate the full commercialization of the
Borrower; (iii) to improve the quality of telecommunications
services; (iv) to expand the Borrower’s facilities to meet the most
urgent demand; and (v) to improve the Borrower’s financial
performance.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Institutional Development:

(1)   Preparation of a long term network development strategy and a
medium term investment program for the Borrower; carrying out of a
technical audit of the Borrower’s Lagos network; and carrying out of
a review of the Borrower’s accounting, financial, billing and
collection policies, procedures and systems.

(2)   Establishment of a Project Management Team.

(3)   Design and implementation of financial management systems and
procedures for the Borrower including an accrual accounting system
and improvements to the Borrower’s budgeting, forecasting, cost
control and other operating procedures.

(4)   Improving the Borrower’s network planning including provision
to the Borrower of experts in traffic engineering, external plant
and switching.

(5)   Establishment of comprehensive and integrated materials and
storage management control systems and procedures by the Borrower.

(6)   Carrying out of a review of the Borrower’s telecommunication
tariff levels and structure.

(7)   Establishment of a Management Information System for
monitoring technical and financial performance at different levels
of the Borrower’s management.

(8)   Revaluation of the Borrower’s fixed assets.

(9)   Computerization of the Borrower’s subscriber records.

(10)  Provision of training fellowships to staff of the Borrower.

Part B:     Rehabilitation and Expansion

      Carrying out of works in the Borrower’s investment program for
1990-94, including:

      (a)   rehabilitation of existing switching, transmission,
power and air conditioning equipment, including the acquisition of
spare parts, modules, tools and test equipment to repair and
refurbish said equipment;

      (b)   installation of about: (i) 143,000 lines of switching
equipment in the Lagos metropolitan area; and (ii) 122,000 lines of
switching equipment in other major cities;

      (c)   installation of external line plant to match lines of
switching equipment included in (b) above;

      (d)   installation of digital microwave radio systems in high
priority areas;

      (e)   establishing of a teleprinter and telex module repair
center;

      (f)   rehabilitation and upgrading o Lanlate satellite earth
station;

      (g)   acquisition of about 100,000 telephone instruments and
about 8,000 pay phones;

      (h)   acquisition of about 300 motor vehicles for planning,
construction and maintenance works;

      (i)   construction of buildings; and

      (j)   acquisition of ancillary equipment, including software
for the Management Information System.

Part C:     Ministry of Communications

      Strengthening the capability of the Ministry of Communications
to regulate the telecommunications sector and monitor performance in
the Sector.

                              *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

February 1, 1996                                4,095,000
August 1, 1996                                  4,255,000
February 1, 1997                                4,420,000
August 1, 1997                                  4,590,000
February 1, 1998                                4,770,000
August 1, 1998                                  4,955,000
February 1, 1999                                5,145,000
August 1, 1999                                  5,345,000
February 2000                                   5,550,000
August 1, 2000                                  5,765,000
February 1, 2001                                5,990,000
August 1, 2001                                  6,225,000
February 1, 2002                                6,465,000
August 1, 2002                                  6,715,000
February 1, 2003                                6,975,000
August 1, 2003                                  7,245,000
February 1, 2004                                7,525,000
August 1, 2004                                  7,820,000
February 1, 2005                                8,120,000
August 1, 2005                                  8,435,000
February 1, 2006                                8,760,000
August 1, 2006                                  9,100,000
February 1, 2007                                9,455,000
August 1, 2007                                  9,820,000
February 1, 2008                               10,200,000
August 1, 2008                                 10,595,000
February 1, 2009                               11,005,000
August 1, 2009                                 11,435,000
February 1, 2010                               11,875,000
August 1, 2010                                 12,350,000

___________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                       Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    date of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but                          0.80
      not more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but                          0.90
      not more than 18 years

      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    The following items may be purchased by direct contracting
from original suppliers or sources in accordance with paragraph 3.5
(b) and (c) of the Guidelines, namely, spare parts and other items
required for the rehabilitation of existing equipment, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $7,300,000.

2.    Training equipment, test equipment and specialized tools may
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $1,300,000.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaiLing
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

