d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3192 TU

             (National Education Development Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 18, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3192 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOE" means the Ministry of National Education of the
Borrower;

      (b)   "YOK" means the Council of Higher Education of the
Borrower;

      (c)   "BOE" means the Board of Education of the Borrower,
established within MOE;

      (d)   "PTC" means any of the Primary Teachers’ Colleges of the
Borrower, operating under YOK;

      (e)   "ERDC" means the Education Research and Development
Center, to be established under Part A (1) (b) of the Project;

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "PCU" means either of the two Project Coordination Units
to be established pursuant to Part A of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;

      (h)   "Investment Project" means any of the Investment
Projects to be carried out by a Faculty of Education of a Turkish
university under Part B (2) of the Project;

      (i)   "PTESC" means the Primary Teacher Education Steering
Committee of YOK, referred to in Part B (2) (a) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;

      (j)   "STESC" means the Secondary Teacher Education Steering
Committee, referred to in Part B (2) (b) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;

      (k)   "UFE" means any of the Turkish universities’ faculties
of education;

      (l)   "FRTVC" means the Films, Radio and Television Center of
MOE; and

      (m)   "IDP" means an institutional development plan, prepared
pursuant to Part B (2) (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent
to the amount of ninety million two hundred thousand dollars
($90,200,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this

Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a

      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE
and YOK with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and educational practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year

                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, support
                  the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

          Basbakanlik
          Hazine ve Dis Ticaret
          Mustesarligi
          Bakanliklar, Ankara

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MALIYE HAZINE             821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                            821-42689 (ANK-TR)

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                  By /s/ Falih Selekler
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Kcpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, North Africa and Middle East

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated             of %
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Equipment and                             100% of foreign
      materials:                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
      (a)   MOE              45,700,000         expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
      (b)   YOK               8,300,000         cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(2)   Consultants’                              100%
      services and
      overseas
      training:

      (a)   MOE                8,000,000

      (b)   YOK               14,800,000

(3)  Unallocated              13,400,000
                              __________

          TOTAL               90,200,000
                              __________
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of

$200,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
under Categories (2) (a) and (2) (b) before that date but after
January 1, 1990.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and of teacher education and to
increase the administrative and managerial efficiency in the
management and administration of primary and secondary education.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Primary and Secondary Education

1.    Curriculum Policy and Management:

      (a)   the undertaking by BOE of a review of the arrangements
for planning, developing and updating of curricula, textbooks and
instructional materials;

      (b)   the establishment of ERDC, consolidation into it of the
responsibility for review and development of curriculum content,
textbooks and instructional materials and adoption by it of an
action plan for its activities;

      (c)   the establishment of a system and procedures for the
testing and evaluation in selected schools of changes in curriculum,
textbooks and instructional materials prior to their general
dissemination;

      (d)   the introduction of computer literacy and computer aided
instruction in grade 10 of selected secondary schools; and

      (e)   the provision for the schools selected pursuant to
paragraph (c) and (d) above of required facilities and equipment.

2.    Quality of Textbooks and Instructional Materials:

      (a)   studies to examine a range of possible specifications to
upgrade the physical production quality of textbooks and the merits
of adopting a textbook rental system, and to provide appropriate
recommendations in connection therewith;

      (b)   adoption by MOE of appropriate procedures to enable ERDC
(i) to assume responsibility for all aspects of the publication
phase of textbooks, and (ii) to ensure quality standards in the
printing and binding of textbooks, including the initiation by ERDC
of a program for textbook development for all grade levels;

      (c)   training of ERDC’s staff in textbook publishing skills;

      (d)   upgrading and modernizing the design and production of
instructional materials (other than textbooks) through the provision
of equipment for FRTVC and the training of its staff; and

      (e)   upgrading the arrangements for the storage and
distribution of textbooks and instructional materials through the
provision of improved warehousing and handling equipment and
facilities, development of a modern computerized system for
inventory and for ordering and distribution, improvement of delivery
and retailing arrangements, updating overall management procedures,
and the provision of technical assistance.

3.    Testing and Evaluation:

      Improving MOE’s technical capability for monitoring and
evaluating the quality of education, through (a) merging MOE’s

Testing and Evaluation Center into ERDC, (b) development within ERDC
of a capability for (i) researching, producing and standardizing
tests for establishing national norms on students’ cognitive
achievement, and (ii) interpretation of achievement test data and
for periodically evaluating the quality of the national education
system, both to identify gains in the system and to measure it
against that of other comparator countries.

4.    Studies:

      Studies of (a) a teacher testing program to establish base-
line data against which to measure improvements in teachers’
quality; (b) a school mapping system to determine projected student
growth patterns and population trends; (c) the feasibility of
including in-service teacher training as a factor in the promotion
of education personnel; (d) actual teaching loads and their
implication in terms of efficiency and cost saving; (e) the extent
of the need for an inventory of instructional equipment and
supplies; and (f) the utilization of science laboratories and the
advisability of equipping middle schools with science equipment and
materials appropriate for teacher demonstrations.
Part B:     Teacher Education

      Implementation of measures to improve the quality and increase
the relevance of teacher education, including:

      (1)   improving the teacher training programs offered at the
PTCs, including (a) basic renovation of facilities, (b) provision of
instructional equipment, materials and furniture, and (c) technical
assistance and training.

      (2)   training of middle and secondary school teachers:

      Expansion/improvement, on the basis of individual Investment
Projects, of the education personnel development programs of the
Universities’ Faculties of Education (UFEs), including (a)
renovation, furnishing and equipping of teaching facilities, (b)
technical assistance for curriculum and instructional materials
development, staff training and planning, (c) provision of local and
overseas training fellowships, (d) provision of resources for
copyrights, translation and printing of textbooks for teacher
education programs, and (e) carrying out of cooperation arrangements
with selected foreign or local institutions.

      (3)   In-service Teacher Education:

      Expanding and strengthening the capacity of the In-service
Training Directorate of MOE in assessing teacher training needs and
in planning, designing and implementing programs to meet such needs,
including (a) preparation of in-service teacher training materials
and programs, (b) construction, equipping and staffing of four
education resource centers, (c) provision of instructional materials
and equipment to support training efforts for about 50,000 teachers
per year, and (d) provision of technical assistance and training.

Part C:     Management of the Education System

      Implementation of measures to improve the administration and
management of the education system, including:

      (a)   the establishment within MOE of a management development
unit to advise on and coordinate the training for managers and to
assess the individual training needs of managers;

      (b)   establishment and operation within MOE of a communi-
cation program to improve dissemination of information within the
education system and increase interaction among its managers;

      (c)   provision of technical assistance and training to
strengthen the capabilities of MOE’s Council for Research, Planning
and Coordination;

      (d)   provision of equipment and technical assistance to
expand and improve MOE’s management information system; and

      (e)   provision of basic data analysis and processing
equipment and technical assistance for MOE’s Center for Research in
Vocational Technical Education.

                           *   *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

     beginning August 15, 1995
     through August 15, 2006                     3,760,000

On February 15, 2007                             3,720,000

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for educational materials, estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $200,000 per contract and $2,000,000 in
the aggregate, may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.    Sundry items of goods estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for proprietary items such as copyrights, computer
software and translation rights may be directly negotiated with the
owners of such items, provided, however, that, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, the amount of contracts pursuant to this
procedure shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$4,500,000.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more (except contracts awarded pursuant to
paragraph C (3) of this Schedule), the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World

Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

A.    Project Management

1.    MOE shall be responsible for the carrying out of all com-
ponents of the Project with the exception of Part B (1) and (2)
thereof which shall be carried out through YOK. For this purpose,
MOE and YOK shall each establish, for the management of their
respective activities under the Project, a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to be responsible for: (a) coordination of the recruitment of
experts required for purposes of technical assistance, (b) with
respect to the PCU of YOK only, receipt and evaluation of proposals
for Investment Projects under Part B (1) and (2) of the Project,
(c) organization and management of the procurement of equipment and
materials, (d) monitoring, evaluating and reporting on progress in
Project implementation, including collection and analysis of Project
related data, (e) provision of support to agencies responsible for
Project implementation, and (f) maintenance of Project accounts and
arranging for the audit thereof.

2.    MOE and YOK shall each maintain, until the completion of the
Project, the Advisory Committee established by each of them to
review progress in Project implementation and to ensure adherence to
its objectives.

B.    Responsibilities for Project Implementation

1.    MOE shall carry out Parts A, B (3) and C of the Project
through its ERDC, In-service Teacher Training Directorate, and
Administration and Finance Department, respectively, all with the
assistance, as required, of the PCU.

2.    The pre-service teacher training under Part B (1) and (2) of
the Project shall be implemented, with the coordination of the PCU
of YOK, by the participating institutions (the PTCs and UFEs), with
the assistance (as required) of consultants and in accordance with
the following arrangements:

      (a)   Each PTC desiring to benefit from the facilities
included in Part B (1) of the Project, shall be required to submit
a detailed institutional development plan (IDP) to YOK secretariat
which shall be reviewed by the Primary Teacher Education Steering
Committee (PTESC) to be established by YOK, by September 1, 1990,
with representatives from YOK and MOE. The PTESC shall review the
IDPs, follow-up on their implementation and make recommendations to
YOK in connection therewith. Procurement of goods under Part B (1)
shall be coordinated by the PCU of YOK, on the basis of approved
IDPs, and shall be grouped in as large packages as possible.

      (b)   Facilities for the training of middle and secondary
school teachers under Part B (2) of the Project shall be made
available for all the 17 UFEs under the supervision of YOK. The UFE
shall be required to submit a proposal for its Investment Project,
detailing the areas to be expanded/enhanced in its education
personnel development program. These proposals for Investment
Projects shall be evaluated, on the basis of agreed criteria, by the
Secondary Teacher Education Steering Committee (STESC), to be
established by YOK, by September 1, 1990, with representatives from
MOE and YOK, and with the assistance of the PCU of YOK and of
consultants, as required. Approval of the Investment Project shall
be made on the basis of such evaluation and shall be contained in a
document specifying the areas for personnel development
(mathematics, social studies, natural sciences, counseling and
guidance, library science and school administration), a general
description of the facilities and equipment needed under the
Investment Project and an estimate of the cost thereof, the
implementation and procurement arrangements and a time-schedule for

the carrying out of the Investment Project.

C.    Particular Requirements

1.    The Borrower shall ensure the completion by BOE, by Septem-ber
1, 1990, of the review referred to in Part A (1) (a) of the Project.

2.    The Borrower, acting through MOE, shall ensure (i) that MOE
shall complete the assessment of the facilities required under
Part (A) (1) (e), and (ii) that funds required for the construction
of such facilities shall be provided in a timely manner.

3.    The Borrower, acting through MOE, shall ensure the employment,
not later than September 1, 1991, of not less than three qualified
specialists in tests and measurement to assist in ERDC’s activities
under Part A (3) of the Project.

4.    The Borrower shall ensure, by December 31, 1990, the
preparation by the two PCUs and the furnishing to the Bank, for its
comments, of a plan for annual assessment of progress in Project
implementation.

5.    The Borrower and the Bank shall undertake annually a joint
review of the Project with a view to agreeing on the resource
requirements and action necessary to achieve the objectives of the
Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-

                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the

relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

