d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3182 IND

                    Loan Agreement

          (Third Telecommunications Project)

                        between

                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated April 30, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3182 IND

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  Parts B, C and D of the Project will be carried
out by Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi (PERUMTEL) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to PERUMTEL part of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) a grant in an
amount of two million dollars ($2,000,000) to assist in
the financing of Part D of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the agreement (the UNDP Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the UNDP;

     (D)  the Borrower has entered into two agreements
dated February 27, 1988, and November 10, 1989,
respectively, (hereinafter called the First and Second
KfW Loan Agreement, respectively) with the Kreditanstalt
fur Weideraufbau (hereinafter called KfW) in an amount of
Deutsche Marks 85,260,000 and 40,030,000, respectively

(hereinafter called the First and Second KfW Loan,
respectively) and the Borrower intends to contract from
KfW or from other external sources, on reasonable terms,
(hereinafter called the Cofinancing Agreement) additional
financing in the amounts of about $115,000,000, all of
these loans and financing to assist in the financing of
the telephone exchange equipment under Part C (ii) of the
Project;

     (E)  the Borrower intends to contract from the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) (hereinafter
called the OECF) or from other external sources, on
reasonable terms, a loan in an amount of about
$28,900,000 to assist in the financing of the six Outside
Plant Maintenance Centers under Part C (v) of the
Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and PERUMTEL;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and PERUMTEL of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;

     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PERUMTEL
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and

     (c)  "Outside Plant Maintenance Centers" mean each
of a centralized management system to achieve efficient
and effective maintenance of local telecommunication
cable and telephone subscriber distribution network,
through centralization of (1) man power, (2) equipment
and facilities, (3) plant records, (4) vehicles, and (5)
training facilities.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of three hundred fifty million dollars

($350,000,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1994 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (III)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the

          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
          each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the
          preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest Period."

               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end
          of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
          Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."

               "(C) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
          period commencing on January 1, April l, July
          1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: (i)
carry out Part A of the Project through its Ministry of
Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications, and shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to carry out such part of the
Project; and (ii) cause PERUMTEL to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of PERUMTEL therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable PERUMTEL to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.

     (b)  without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and except as the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

     (c)  The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the
Loan, relend to PERUMTEL an amount equivalent to
$348,000,000 under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PERUMTEL, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank.

     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan

Agreement or any provision thereof.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of consultants’ services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and procurement of the
goods and consultants’ services required for Parts B and
C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule l to the Project Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B, C and
D of the Project shall be carried out by PERUMTEL
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

             Financial and Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part
A of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part of the
Project or any part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank; and

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested, including without limitation
               on the foregoing copies of the unaudited
               accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section, as soon as available, but
               not later than four months after the end
               of each such fiscal year.

     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
January 31, 1991, or such later date as the Bank shall
otherwise agree:

          (i)  obtain other loans or financing, on
               reasonable terms, from OECF or from other
               sources outside Indonesia to assist in
               the financing of at least six Outside
               Plant Maintenance Centers under Part C
               (v) of the Project; and

          (ii) entered into the UNDP Grant Agreement to
               assist in the financing of the technical
               assistance under Part D of the Project.

     (b)  For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall keep the Bank informed of the

progress in arranging such financing, including the terms
and conditions thereof, and shall take into account the
Bank’s comments, if any, thereon.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  PERUMTEL have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that PERUMTEL will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (c)  Government Regulation No. 36/1974 as modified
by Government Regulation No. 21/1984 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of
PERUMTEL to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of PERUMTEL or for the
suspension of its operations.

     (e)  Either the agreement under paragraph (a) (i) of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement or the UNDP Agreement
shall have failed to become effective by January 31,
1991, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for financing at least six
of the Outside Plant Maintenance Centers under Part C (v)
of the Project and the technical assistance under Part D
of the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:

               (A)  the right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                    or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing therefor, or

               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.

          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
               such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused
               by the failure of the Borrower to perform
               any of its obligations under such
               agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on terms and

               conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this
               Agreement.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;

     (c)  the events specified in paragraph (e), of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso therein set forth; and

     (d)  the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PERUMTEL; and

     (b)  that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Cofinancing Agreement, have been
fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by PERUMTEL, and is legally
binding upon PERUMTEL in accordance with its terms; and

     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PERUMTEL
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PERUMTEL in
accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120)
days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Director General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 2458
          Jakarta, 10710 Indonesia

          Cable address:           Telex:

               MINISTRY FINANCE          DEPKEU JKT 44319
               JAKARTA              DJMLN JKT 45799

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD            197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                     82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

               By /s/ A. R. Ramly
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ R. J. Cheetham
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Outside Plant  260,000,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures,

100%
                                        of local expendi-
                                        tures (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 65% of
                                        local
expenditures
                                        for items pro-
                                        cured locally

(2)    Telecommuni-    10,000,000       100% of foreign
   cations equipment                    expenditures,
100%
   and materials,                       of local expendi-
   excluding switch-                    tures (ex-factory
   ing equipment                        cost) and 65% of
                                        local
expenditures
                                        for items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3)    Computer system,33,000,000       100% of foreign
   including service                    expenditures,
100%
   arrangements                         of local expendi-
                                        tures (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 65% of
                                        local
expenditures
                                        for items pro-
                                        cured locally

(4)    Training         7,000,000       100% of foreign
   equipment                            expenditures,
100%
                                        of local expendi-
                                        tures (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 65% of
                                        local
expenditures
                                        for items pro-
                                        cured locally

(5)    Consultancy
   and training:

   (a) under Part A     2,000,000       100%
       of the Project

   (b) under Parts B,  28,000,000       100%
       C and D of
       the Project

(6)    Unallocated     10,000,000

       TOTAL          350,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and

     (c)  the term "Outside Plants" means the supply,
delivery, installation and commissioning of local
telecommunications cable network, pulse code modulation

cable, optical fiber cable, transmission equipment
(inclusive of microwave equipment), subscriber
connections (inclusive of house-wiring and telephone
set), and associated infrastructure.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower to improve overall management of the
telecommunications sector, develop PERUMTEL’s
institutional capability, and accelerate implementation
of telecommunications network investments.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

          (i)  improve the administrative process for
               the annual development and subsequent
               Government approval of PERUMTEL’s
               corporate plan;

          (ii) review telecommunications sector
               policies; and

          (iii)     develop an adequate
                    telecommunications regulatory and
                    analytical capability of the
                    Directorate General of Posts and
                    Telecommunications, all through the
                    provision of, inter alia, technical
                    assistance to the Borrower’s
                    Ministry of Tourism, Posts and
                    Telecommunications.

Part B:

Improve PERUMTEL’s:

          (i)  management and professional development
               program;

          (ii) managerial, financial and technical
               capabilities; and

          (iii)     project design, engineering,
                    implementation and supervision
                    capabilities, all through the
                    provision of, inter alia, technical
                    assistance to PERUMTEL.

Part C:

Provision of:

          (i)  interface equipment to fully utilize the
               existing idle capacity in the
               telecommunications network and to connect
               about 125,000 main lines;

          (ii) telephone exchange equipment, associated
               cable distribution telecommunications
               network and subscriber terminal

               equipment, including 35,000 pay phones to
               connect about 475,000 main lines;

          (iii)     Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) cable
                    and fibre-optic cable transmission
                    facilities for inter exchange
                    junction links within the multi
                    exchange areas;

          (iv) computer systems, including terminals, to
               establish computerized telecommunications
               network management systems; and

          (v)  equipment and facilities, including
               testing equipment, tools and vehicles to
               establish at least six Outside Plant
               Maintenance Centers (OPMC), three in
               Jakarta (Pusat, Timur and Kota), and one
               each in Medan, Surabaya and Ujung
               Pandang, all in support of PERUMTEL’s
               1989-93 investment program.

Part D:

          (i)  Upgrading facilities in the central
               training center in Bandung and the 12
               regional training centers of PERUMTEL;
               and

          (ii) Training instructors and course
               developers for the training center staff
               of PERUMTEL, through the provision of,
               inter alia, about 200 staff-months of
               international experts, about 49
               staff-months of fellowships, and training
               equipment.

                        *  *  *

     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in
dollars)*

December 15, 1995                            6,370,000
June 15, 1996                           6,620,000
December 15, 1996                            6,875,000
June 15, 1997                           7,140,000
December 15, 1997                            7,420,000
June 15, 1998                           7,705,000
December 15, 1998                            8,005,000
June 15, 1999                           8,315,000
December 15, 1999                            8,635,000
June 15, 2000                           8,970,000
December 15, 2000                            9,320,000
June 15, 2001                           9,680,000
December 15, 2001                            10,055,000
June 15, 2002                           10,445,000
December 15, 2002                            10,850,000
June 15, 2003                           11,270,000
December 15, 2003                            11,705,000
June 15, 2004                           12,160,000
December 15, 2004                            12,630,000
June 15, 2005                           13,120,000
December 15, 2005                            13,630,000

June 15, 2006                           14,160,000
December 15, 2006                            14,705,000
June 15, 2007                           15,275,000
December 15, 2007                            15,870,000
June 15, 2008                           16,485,000
December 15, 2008                            17,120,000
June 15, 2009                           17,785,000
December 15, 2009                            18,475,000
June 15, 2010                           19,205,000

_______________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums of Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment,
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years
     before maturity                         0.15

More than three years but
     not more than six years
     before maturity                         0.30

More than six years but
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity                         0.55

More than 11 years but
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity                         0.80

More than 16 years but
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity                         0.90

More than 18 years before
     maturity                           1.00

                      SCHEDULE 4

                 Consultant’s Services

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program

1.   The Borrower shall:

     (a)  by October 31, 1990, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comments, a timetable for
establishing a legal framework for private sector
participation in the provision of nonbasic
telecommunications services and, thereafter, taking into
account the Bank’s comments, if any, take all such action
as shall be necessary to develop such legal framework;
and

     (b)  by October 31, 1990, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comments, a timetable for the
strengthening of the telecommunications regulatory
capacity of its Ministry of Tourism, Posts and
Telecommunications, and thereafter, taking into account
the Bank’s comments, if any, undertake such
strengthening.

2.   The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary, including annual reviews and adjustments, if
any, of PERUMTEL’s tariffs, to enable PERUMTEL to comply
with the provisions of Section 4.03 and paragraphs 8, 9
and 10 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

