d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3191 HU

                    Loan Agreement

       (Financial System Modernization Project)

                        between

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                          and

               NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY

                  Dated June 1, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3191 HU

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)  and
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY (the Borrower).

    WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

    (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement;

    (C) by agreements (the Project Agreements)  of even
date herewith between the Bank and each of the
Participating Banks, as defined in Section 1.02 (e) of
this Agreement, respectively, the Participating Banks
have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

          (a)  "BB" means the Budapest Bank, Ltd.
established under Resolution No. 1084/1986 dated December
30, 1986,.of the Council of Ministers of the Guarantor
and operating pursuant to statutes adopted by a general
meeting of BB’s shareholders on December 14,
1989;

          (b)  "CCB"  means  the Commercial and Credit
Bank Ltd., established under Resolution No. 1084/1986
dated December 30, 1986, and operating pursuant to Rules
of Association adopted by a general meeting of CCB’s
shareholders on November 13, 1989;

          (c)  "HCB" means the Hungarian Credit Bank
Ltd., established under Resolution No. 1084/1986 dated
December 30, 1986, and operating pursuant to Articles of
Association adopted by a general meeting of HCB’s
shareholders on November 15, 1989;

          (d)  "NSB" means the National Savings Bank,
established by Decree No. 60/1949 dated December 28,
1949, of the Government of the Guarantor and operating
pursuant to a Founding Charter approved by the
Guarantor’s Minister of Finance and effective as of
January 1, 1989;

     (e)  "Participating Bank a means BB, CCB, HCB or
NSB;

     (f)  "BB Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and BB of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
BB Project Agreement;

          (g)  "CCB Project Agreement" means the
agreement between the Bank and CCB of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the CCB Project Agreement;

          (h)  "HCB Project Agreement" means the
agreement between the Bank and HCB of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the HCB Project Agreement;

          (i)  "NSB project Agreement" means the
agreement between the Bank and NSB of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the NSB Project Agreement;

          (j)  "Project Agreements" means the agreements
referred to in paragraphs (f) through (i) of this
Section;

     (k) "CSFO" means the Center for Settlement of
Financial Operations Ltd , a joint-stock company
established and operating pursuant to statues adopted by
a general meeting of its shareholders on December 19,
1988;

     (1)  "ITCB" means the International Training Center
for Bankers Ltd.,  a joint-stock company established and
operating pursuant to Articles of Association adopted by
a general meeting of its shareholders on November 15,
1988;

     (m) "ITCB Agreement means the agreement to be
entered into pursuant to Section 3.01  (c) of this
Agreement between the Borrower and ITCB, as the same may
be amended from time to time;

          (n)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any
agreement to be entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement between the Borrower and, respectively,
the Guarantor, each of the Participating Banks, each of
the Eligible Banks and CSFO, as the same may be amended
from time to time;

          (o)  "Subsidiary Loan" means any loan provided
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

          (p)  "Eligible Bank" means any financial
institution other than a Participating Bank with which
the Borrower shall have entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

     (q) "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the Monetary
and Credit Policy Guidelines regulating the provision
of credit by the Borrower, established by Resolution
No. 1166/1989 dated December 28, 1989, of the Council
of Ministers of the Guarantor;

     (r) "Special Account" means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

          (s)  "Category" means any withdrawal Category
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

                          ARTICLE II

                           The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the

Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of sixty-six million dollars ($66,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or,  if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain on its books a special account
in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,  the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.

    (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

     (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period
          ending on the date immediately preceding each
          date specified in Section 2.06 of this
          Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
          in which this Agreement is signed.

     (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
          as reasonably determined by the Bank and
          expressed as a percentage per  annum,  of the
          outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
          after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
          or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
          to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
          loans which may be made by the Bank after July
          1,  1989, bearing interest rates determined
          otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
          this Section.

     (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

    (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
of l%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period,  calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."

     "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter,  the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Quarter."

     "(c)  (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July l or October 1 in
a calendar year."

    Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

         Execution of the Project; Management
            and Operations of the Borrower

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i) carry out Part B of the Project,  and take all action
required on its part to cause Parts A,  C and D of the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical,
administrative, financial and economic practices, and to
enable the Guarantor,  the Participating Banks,  the
Eligible Banks and CSFO to perform their respective
obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and ITCB to perform its obligations under the
ITCB Agreement;  (ii) provide, promptly as needed,  the
funds,  facilities,  services and other resources
required for the purpose; and (iii)  conduct its
operations and affairs under the Project in accordance
with sound financial standards and practices, with
qualified management and personnel, and in accordance
with the Credit Policy Guidelines.

    (b)  The Borrower shall make available to the
Guarantor, the Participating Banks, the Eligible Banks
and CSFO the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement under
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and, respectively, the Guarantor, each of the
Participating Banks,  each of the Eligible Banks and CSFO
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation,
those set forth in said Schedule 6.

    (c)  The Borrower shall make available to ITCB the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (5) under an agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ITCB, under conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule
6 to this Agreement.

     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the ITCB Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests  of the Bank and
the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the ITCB Agreement or
any provision thereof.

     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:

     (a)  coordinate and monitor the overall execution of
the Project and the carrying out by the parties to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the parties to  the ITCB
Agreement of their respective obligations thereunder in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; and

     (b)  except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ensure that the procurement of the goods and consultants’
services required for t~e Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shaLl be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, and maintenance, respectively) in respect of:
(a)  Part A of the Project shall be carried out by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement; and (b) Part C of the Project shall be carried
out by the Participating Banks pursuant to Section 2.03
of each of the
Project Agreements.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section and the
               records and accounts for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than five
               months after the end of each such year,
               (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited
               and (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such

               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records,
                    accounts and financial statements as
                    well as the audit thereof as the
                    Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section,  records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents)  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their prepa ration,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

    Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:

    (a)  open, by the date on which it shall receive the
first payment of interest or other charges on, or
repayment of principal under, any of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and thereafter maintain a separate account on
its books in accordance with its normal financial
practices; and

    (b)  upon receipt of each such payment or repayment,
credit the same to the said separate account. All amounts
so credited shall be utilized by the Borrower, to the
extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower’s
payment obligations under this Agreement,  exclusively to
finance activities similar to those financed under the
Project, in accordance with the Credit Policy Guidelines.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the Credit Policy Guidelines
shall have been amended, suspended,  abrogated,  repealed
or waived so as  to  affect materially and adversely the
financial condition of the Borrower or the ability of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

    Section 5.02. Without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, if any of the
following events of suspension shall have occurred and be
continuing in respect of a Participating Bank, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account for expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and such
Participating Bank:

    (a)  Any of the Participating Banks shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Project Agreement.

     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that any of the Participating Banks will be
able to perform its respective obligations under its
respective Project Agreement.

     (c)  Any of the Resolution, Statutes, Rules,
Articles, Decree and Charter referred to in Section 1.02
(a) through (d) of this Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
concerned Participating Bank to perform any of its
obligations under its respective Project Agreement.

     (d)  The Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of any of the
Participating Banks or for the suspension of its
operations.

     Section 5.03.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  the events specified in Section 5.01 and
Section 5.02 (c) and (d) of this Agreement shall occur;
and

     (b)  the event specified in Section 5.02 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely,  that Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been executed on behalf  of  the
Borrower  and  each  of  the  Guarantor,  the
Participating Banks and CSFO and the ITCB Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ITCB.

     Section 6.02.  The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to
in Section 6.01 of this Agreement and the ITCB Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties

thereto and are legally binding upon the parties thereto
in accordance with their terms; and

     (b)  that the Project Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Participating Banks and are
legally binding upon the Participating Banks in
accordance with their terms.

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement  is hereby  specified for  the
purposes  of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The president of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the GeneraL conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

                    INTBAFRAD                     197688
(TRT),
                    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI)
or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

          For the Borrower:

          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
              Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Republic of Hungary

          Cable address:                Telex:

                    BANKO                         227267
SMAFV-H,
               Budapest                 225755 BANKO-H or
                                        227029 BANKO-H

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By /s/  Eugenlo F. Lari
                              Acting Regional Vice

President
                              Europe, Middle East and
North Africa

               NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY

               By /s/ Laszlo Body
                         Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Goods, consultants’4,000,000 )   100% of foreign
   services and                 )       expenditures and
   training under               )       100% of local
   Part A of the                )       expenditures (ex-
   Project                      )       factory cost) for
                                )       goods; 80% of
local
(2)    Goods, consultants’4,000,000 )   expenditures for
   services and                 )       services of con-
   training under               )       sultants
domiciled
   Part B of the                )       within the tern
   Project                      )       tory of the Gua-
                                )       rant or and lOO%
(3) Goods, consultants’         )       of foreign expen-
   services and                 )       ditures for ser-
   training under               )       vices of other
   Part C of the                )       consultants; and
   Project:                     )       100% of foreign
                                )       expenditures for
   (a) for BB         4,600,000 )       training

   (b) for CCB        6,600,000 )

   (c) for HCB        6,700,000 )

   (d) for NSB        8,600,000 )

(4)    Goods, con-     22,500,000       100% of foreign
   sultants’                            expenditures and
   services and                         100% of local
   training under                       expenditures (ex-
   Part D (1) of                        factory cost) for
   the Project                          goods; 80% of
local
                                        expenditures for
                                        services of con-
                                        sultants
domiciled
                                        within the tern
                                        tory of the Gua-
                                        rant or and 100%

                                        of foreign expen-
                                        ditures for ser-
                                        vices of other
                                        consultants; and
                                        100% of foreign
                                        expenditures for
                                        training

(5)    Goods and con-   1,000,000       100% of foreign
   sultants’ services                   expenditures
   under Part D (2)
   of the Project

(6)    Unallocated      8,000,000

          TOTAL        66,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,  in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1989; and

     (b)  Category (4) on account of expenditures by an
Eligible Bank except after the Bank shall have
communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence
that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and
such Eligible Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to modernize the
regulatory framework and institutional capabilities of
the financial system and to improve its ability to
mobilize and allocate financial
resources efficiently.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Bank and the
Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

The carrying out by the Guarantor of:

(1)  a program to: (a) develop further the regulatory
     framework for banking operations and the prudential
     regulations applicable thereto, (b) strengthen the

     organization and functions of its State Bank
     Supervision Agency, including the development and
     application of appropriate operational policies and
     procedures, the training of staff and the provision
     of a suitable management information system; and
     (c) carry out portfolio audits of BB, CCB and HCB
     and other banks selected by agreement between the
     Guarantor and the Bank;

(2)       a program to develop further the securities
          market, including (a)  the formulation and
          application of an appropriate regulatory
          framework for securities market trading, (b)
          the establishment, under appropriate
          operational policies and procedures, staffing,
          equipping and operation of a securities market
          supervisory body and a stock exchange, (c) the
          provision of training to securities market
          participants and potential issuers of, and
          investors in, securities, in the operations of
          the securities market, and (d) the carrying
          out of a review of the operations of the
          securities market to identify and implement a
          suitable strategy to increase the
          Participation by institutional and individual
          investors ln the securities market; and

(3)       a two-year program to improve the Guarantor’s
          accounting and auditing standards to bring
          them in line with internationally accepted
          accounting and auditing standards and to
          provide the resources required for the proper
          application of such standards,  including the
          establishment, under appropriate operational
          policies and procedures, staffing and
          equipping of a committee to coordinate the
          carrying out of such activities and an
          executive authority to supervise the
          application of the accounting and auditing
          standards developed thereunder.

Part B:

Part C:

Part D:

     The carrying out of: (1) a program to strengthen the
operations of the Borrower, including the design and
application of a suitable management information system
and the provision of equipment and staff training; and
(2) a program to provide advisory services to assist
financial institutions in the development of their
institutional capabilities.

     The carrying out, by each of BB, CCB, HCB and NSB of
a program to strengthen its respective organization,
management, operations and financial structure, including
the carrying out of external financial audits and the
provision of staff training and of a suitable automated
management information system.

(1)  The financing by the Borrower, through the provision
of Subsidiary Loans, of

     (a)  (i) diagnostic studies by Eligible Banks to
prepare programs for the strengthening of each such
Eligible Bank’s organization, management, operations and
financial structure; and (ii) programs by Eligible Banks
to strengthen each such Eligible Bank’s organization,
management,  operations and financial structure,
including the carrying out of external financial audits

and the provision of staff training and of a suitable
automated management information system; and

     (b)  the establishment, staffing and equipping by
CSFO of a national payments clearing center for the
banking system, including the provision of staff training
and of a suitable electronic communications network.

(2)  The carrying out of a program by ITCB to strengthen
its training programs and enhance its provision of
advisory and information services to financial
institutions in the development of their training
programs, including the provision of training equipment
and materials.

                       *   *   *

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

     beginning December 15, 1995
     through June 15, 2005                   3,300,000

*    The figure in this column represents the dollar
     equivalent determined as of the respective dates of
     withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment
Premium

                                        The interest
                                        rate  (ex-
                                        pressed as a
                                        percentage per
                                        annum)
                                        applicable to
                                        the Loan on the
                                        day of

                                        prepayment
                                        multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.20
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but not                  0.73
     more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not               0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity

More than thirteen years before              1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in the territory of the Guarantor may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees
(a) are of proprietary nature, (b) the timely supply
thereof is critical for efficient Project execution, or
(c) need to be compatible with other installed equipment,
may be procured through direct negotiations with the
proprietors thereof,  on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.

2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from at least three different countries eligible under
the Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more,  the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the

Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
Procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account,  such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     Consultants’ services required for the carrying out
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded
to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by world Bank Borrowers and by in e world Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     ta)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3),  (4) and (5) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and

    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On

the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits  into  the  Special
               Account  at  such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii)      Prior to or at the time of each such
                    request, the Borrower shall furnish
                    to the Bank the documents and other
                    evidence required pursuant to
                    paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of
                    which replenishment is requested. On
                    the basis of each such request,  the
                    Bank shall, on behalf of the
                    Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall
                    have been shown by said documents
                    and other evidence to ha~e been paid
                    out of the Special Account for
                    eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account,  the Borrower shall,  at such time as
the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of. the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant

         Principal Terms and Conditions of the            Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
and
                    ITCB Agreement

to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,  if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 6

    Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the principal terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.

A.   Subsidiary Loans - General

1.   The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall
be the equivalent in the currency of the Guarantor
(determined as of the respective date or dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
Special Account) of the aggregate value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the
cost of goods,  technical licenses,  consultants’
services and training (goods and services) financed out
of the proceeds of the
Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing
for such Subsidiary Loan.)

2.   Each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the
principal amount thereof, withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, interest at a rate determined in accordance
with the principles applied by the Borrower under the
Credit Policy Guidelines for the establishment of its
refinancing rate as of the date of this Agreement.

3.   Each Subsidiary Loan shall have a maturity of not
more than 15 years, inclusive of a grace period of not
more than five years.

4.   The right of a party to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to the use of the proceeds of such party’s respective
Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) suspended upon failure by
such party to perform any of its obligations under its

respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (b)  terminated
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to
subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of 60
days.

B.   Guarantor

    The Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Guarantor shall require the
Guarantor to carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Article III of the
Guarantee Agreement.

C.   Participating Banks

     Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and a Participating Bank shall
require said Participating Bank to carry out its
activities under Part C of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the Project Agreement.

D.   Eligible Banks  CSFO and ITCB

1.   Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Eligible Banks and
CSFO, and the ITCB Agreement between the Borrower and
ITCB (each of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the
ITCB Agreement referred to as an Agreement and the
Eligible Banks, CSFO and ITCB collectively referred to as
the parties) shall require each of the parties to:

     (a)  carry out its activities under Part D of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency  and in
accordance with appropriate practices and provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other
resources required for the purpose;

     (b)  employ consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist it in the carrying out of its activities
under Part D of the Project;

     (c)  procure the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use such
goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of its
activities under Part D of the Project;

     (d)  exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to, the Bank or the Borrower, as shall be
requested by the Bank or the Borrower, with regard to the
progress of its activities under Part D of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under its respective
Agreement,  and other matters relating to the purposes of
Part D of the Project; and

     (e)  promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of its activities under its respective
Agreement.

2.   Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Eligible Banks and
CSFO (the parties) shall further require each of the
parties to: (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition and have its financial
statements  (balance sheets,  statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied,  by independent auditors

acceptable to  the  Bank, (ii) furnish to the Bank and
the Borrower, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than five months after the end of each such year
(A) certified copies of said financial statements and
accounts for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail
as the Bank or the Borrower shall have reasonably
requested, and (iii) furnish to the Bank or the Borrower
such other information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof as
the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time
reasonably request.

3.   The ITCB Agreement shall further require ITCB to:
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition;  and (ii) prepare and furnish to
the Bank or the Borrower, all such information as the
Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably  request  relating
to the foregoing, to its administration, operations and
financial condition.

4.   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CSFO shall further require CSFO
to charge fees for services performed by CSFO as national
payments clearing center at levels sufficient to enable
CSFO to cover its operating costs, capital expenditures
and debt-service requirements, all as determined on the
basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

E.   Eligible Banks

1.   A Subsidiary Loan Agreement for the purposes of Part
D (1) (a) of the Project shall be entered into only with
a financial institution, duly established and operating
under the laws of the Guarantor, which the Borrower shall
have determined and the Bank shall have agreed has a
sound financial structure.

2.   A Subsidiary Loan Agreement for the purposes of Part
D (1)
(a)  (ii) of the Project providing for a Subsidiary Loan
in an amount equivalent to $300,000 or more shall
further:

     (a)  be entered into only with a financial
institution which has (i) completed an institutional
diagnostic study, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
to the Bank, (ii) based on the results and
recommendations of said study, developed and adopted an
action program, acceptable to the Bank, to strengthen its
organization, management and operations and financial
structure, and (iii) established a task force
satisfactory to the Bank, to coordinate and monitor the
carrying out of said action program; and

     (b)  require such Eligible Bank to:

     (i)  carry out the action program referred to  in
          paragraph 2 (a)  (ii) of this Part and the
          action plan referred to in paragraph 2 (b)
          (ii) of this Part as part of its activities
          under Part D of the Project to be carried out
          in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part D of
          this Schedule; and

     (ii) develop and adopt, on the basis of the results
          of the audit carried out in accordance with
          the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part D of
          this Schedule for each of its fiscal years
          during which it shall be carrying out its
          activities under Part D of the Project an

          action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the
          following fiscal year to strengthen its
          financial structure in accordance with prudent
          loan classification and provisioning criteria,
          such action plan for each fiscal year to be
          prepared not later than six months after the
          end of the preceding fiscal year.

