d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3251 IVC

                  (Women in Development Project)

                              between

                     REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated October 1, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3251 IVC
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
(the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank").

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions")
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "CAA" means the Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement, a
Financial Public Institution (Etablissement Public Financier) of the
Borrower organized pursuant to Law No. 88-681 of July 22, 1988 and
Decree No. 88-730 of August 25, 1988;

      (b)   "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" means the currency of the
Borrower;

      (c)   "Development Fund" means the fund referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Development Fund Account" means the account referred to
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;

      (e)   "DO" means the Development Organization entrusted by the
Borrower with the Administration of the Development Fund;

      (f)   "MPF" means Ministcre de la Promotion de la Femme, the
Borrower’s Ministry for the Advancement of Women;

      (g)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two million two hundred thousand Dollars ($2,200,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in CAA on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to

time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MPF
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly

as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, and in any case not later than December 31 each year the
Project is being executed, starting with December 31, 1990, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.

      (b)   Prior to any such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than October 31 of each
year, the Borrower shall furnish the following documentation
satisfactory to the Bank:

            (i)   a project performance review for the current year
                  of Project implementation; and

           (ii)   a draft annual work plan and budget for the
                  following calendar year including:

                  (A)   a program of operations;

                  (B)   a schedule of training programs; and

                  (C)   monitoring and evaluation programs for the
                        activities described in Parts A and B of
                        the Project.

      Section 3.03. (a) In order to finance its share of the Project
operating costs and without limitation to the generality of Section
3.01 with regard to the provision of funds, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   open, and thereafter maintain, in CFAF and in the
                  name of MPF - Women in Development Project, an
                  account in CAA on terms and conditions
                  satisfactory to the Bank;

           (ii)   deposit into such Project Account an initial
                  amount of CFAF 75,000,000;

          (iii)   thereafter, deposit quarterly into the Project
                  Account, not later than March 31, June 30,
                  September 30 and December 31 of each year during
                  Project execution, a sum necessary to replenish
                  the Project Account up to the amount of CFAF
                  75,000,000.

      (b)   Amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section shall be used only to make payments to
meet local expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project and not
eligible for financing under the Loan.

      Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A of the Project:

      (a)   the DO shall: (i) establish, and thereafter maintain a
Development Fund Account in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) out of the Development
Fund Account make grants to women for investments in productive
assets in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and

      (b)   the Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, as
shall be from time to time allocated to Category (5) of paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) deposit into the Development
Fund Account an initial amount equivalent to $50,000; (ii) there-
after, upon presentation of such documents and other evidence
showing that the payments out of the Development Fund Account were
made exclusively for expenditures eligible under the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, deposit semiannually during execution
of the Project into said Account such sums as shall be necessary to
replenish it up to the initial amount equivalent to $50,000.

      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures: (i) in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof; and (ii) of the Development Fund.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account and the Development Fund
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,

namely, that the Borrower has opened the Project Account and
deposited the initial amount referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of
this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            P.O. Box V 125
            Abidjan
            Republic of Ccte d’Ivoire

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    23747 MINFIN
                  Abidjan

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE

                  By /s/ Albert Bra Saraka
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Civil Works               400,000         70%

(2)   Equipment and             400,000         100%
      vehicles

(3)   Consultants’              420,000         80%
      services

(4)   Training                  250,000         60%

(5)   Civil works, goods        150,000         70%
      and services
      financed by the
      Development Fund

(6)   Services under             50,000         100%
      Part C.6 of
      the Project

(7)   Incremental               330,000         40%
      operating costs

(8)   Unallocated               200,000
                              _________

      TOTAL                   2,200,000
                              =========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "incremental
operating costs" means the cost of incremental supplies, fuel,
building and vehicle maintenance, and travel.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category
(5) of paragraph 1 above, until the Borrower has: (i) selected the
DO satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) entered into an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with such DO for the administration of the
Development Fund.

      (c)   out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category
(6) of paragraph 1 above, until an agreement satisfactory to the
Bank has been entered into between MPE and the technical ministries
and agencies for the cooperation envisaged under Part C.6 of the
Project.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve rural women’s
farming systems and access to markets; (ii) to upgrade urban women’s
skills; (iii) to improve the welfare of rural and urban households
in pilot zones of the Borrower’s territory through women’s
education; and (iv) to strengthen the capacity of institutional
support services to better address women’s issues.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Rural Women

      Improving the economic and social welfare of rural households
in selected areas of the Borrower’s territory through the following
actions:

1.    provision of extension services for women’s farming;

2.    establishing women cooperatives;

3.    improving storage, processing and marketing of food crops;

4.    training in literacy, numeracy, household economics, primary
health care, nutrition and hygiene; and

5.    purchase of goods and services and construction of small
facilities for rural activities.

Part B:    Marginalized Urban Women

      Improving the skills and social welfare of marginalized urban
women through the following actions:

1.    training in skills demanded by the labor market;

2.    preparation for skills training programs;

3.    provide assistance to women in search of employment; and

4.    training in literacy, numeracy, household economics, primary
health care, nutrition and hygiene.

Part C:     Institutional Support

      Strengthening the institutional capacity of MFP in the
following areas:

1.    formulating policies and programs;

2.    coordinating and promoting women’s issues;

3.    monitoring and evaluating women’s development programs;

4.    collecting information and disseminating it to women;

5.    formulating studies on women’s issues; and

6.    cooperating with technical ministries and agencies on women’s
issues.

                  *                 *                 *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in Dollars)*

April 15, 1996                                  40,000
October 15, 1996                                40,000
April 15, 1997                                  45,000
October 15, 1997                                45,000
April 15, 1998                                  45,000
October 15, 1998                                50,000

April 15, 1999                                  50,000
October 15, 1999                                50,000
April 15, 2000                                  55,000
October 15, 2000                                55,000
April 15, 2001                                  60,000
October 15, 2001                                60,000
April 15, 2002                                  65,000
October 15, 2002                                65,000
April 15, 2003                                  70,000
October 15, 2003                                70,000
April 15, 2004                                  75,000
October 15, 2004                                75,000
April 15, 2005                                  80,000
October 15, 2005                                80,000
April 15, 2006                                  85,000
October 15, 2006                                90,000
April 15, 2007                                  90,000
October 15, 2007                                95,000
April 15, 2008                                 100,000
October 15, 2008                               105,000
April 15, 2009                                 110,000
October 15, 2009                               110,000
April 15, 2010                                 115,000
October 15, 2010                               125,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the  procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items which cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $250,000, and civil
works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published

by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                         Development Fund

Part A:     Purpose

1.    The Development Fund shall make grants to women groups or
individual women members of a group to increase their earning
capacity and income through investments in productive assets.

2.    The grants shall be used to finance the initial working
capital of income generating activities, processing and other
equipment and construction of storage and other small facilities.

Part B:     Administration

1.    The Development Fund shall be administered by a DO satis-
factory to the Bank, which shall work in coordination with the field
offices of MPF and be responsible for the review and approval of
applications.

2.    After the initial identification of eligible candidates made
by the teachers and extension agents, the DO shall assess each
candidate’s capabilities in terms of the proposed investment and
award the grant.

3.    The DO shall retain full documentation of the investments
financed for review, evaluation and audit in accordance with Section
4.01 of this Agreement.

4.    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Development Fund Account: (a) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to this Schedule; or (b) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the DO shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Development
Fund Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.

Part C:     Eligibility

1.    In order to qualify for a grant the recipient shall submit to
the DO a proposal for the investment outlining a simple cost-benefit
analysis including the cost and availability of inputs and the
expected output and marketing strategy. The proposal shall also
identify recurrent or operational cost requirements and indicate how
they would be met.

2.    Where a proposal includes acquisition of equipment, materials
or construction of buildings, their future ownership, as well as the
rights and obligations of the recipient, shall be clearly
identified.

3.    The proposal shall include a monitoring and evaluation
mechanism.

4.    Eligibility shall be limited to applicants who: (i) have
satisfactory attended the rural outreach program or the skills
training program of MPF; and (ii) have received training in
cooperatives and are themselves part of a group.

Part D:     Terms and Conditions

1.    Any grant may not exceed a total equivalent to $5,000.

2.    The recipient shall contribute, in cash or in kind, a minimum
of 50% to 70% of the total cost of the investment, such contribution
to be established by the DO depending on the size and risk factor of
the investment.

3.    Each recipient shall be required to open a savings account in
a commercial bank, satisfactory to the Bank, in which the recipient
shall regularly deposit a portion of the profits, if any, resulting
from the investment made, sufficient to insure the eventual
replacement of the assets financed.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $270,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.  All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

