d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3242 PH

       (First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Project)

                              between

                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 9, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3242 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)

constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "DoH" means the Department of Health of the Borrower and
includes any successors thereto;

      (b)   "DLG" means the Department of Local Government of the
Borrower and includes any successors thereto;

      (c)   "DPWH" means the Department of Public Works and Highways
of the Borrower and includes any successors thereto;

      (d)   "LWUA" means the Local Water Utilities Administration of
the Borrower and includes any successors thereto;

      (e)   "PCC" means the Project Coordination Committee estab-
lished pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (f)   "Project Provinces" mean the thirty-seven provinces in
Regions I to V and the Cordillera Administrative Region, generally
referred to as the Luzon region, of the Borrower and such other
provinces in other Regions of the Borrower as may be agreed to
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (g)   "Provincial Sector Plans" mean the Provincial Water
Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans prepared, adopted and
made effective pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of the Philippines on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-

fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  there-of as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DoH,
DLG, DPWH and LWUA with due diligence and efficiency and in con-

formity with appropriate administrative, financial, health and
public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the civil works, goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,

                  together with the proce-dures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: Prepara-
tion, adoption and putting into effect of Provincial Sector Plans
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement by at least
eight Project Provinces.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

       For the Borrower:

            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila, Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    7550 CBP-PH
                  Manila                    40268 CB-CONF

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                        By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Goods consisting       38,340,000         100% of foreign
      of equipment,                             expenditures, 100%
      materials and                             of local expen-
      vehicles                                  ditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(2)   Civil Works:

      (a)   shallow wells     2,700,000         57% of Unit Cost
            with pump                           per completed
                                                unit

      (b)   deep wells       17,190,000         57% of Unit Cost
            with pump                           per completed
                                                unit

      (c)   spring deve-      2,100,000         57% of Unit Cost
            lopment                             per completed
                                                unit

      (d)   well rehabi-        510,000         57% of Unit Cost
            litation                            per completed
                                                unit

      (e)   workshop            200,000         57% of Unit Cost
            buildings                           per completed
                                                unit

      (f)   household         4,830,000         57% of Unit Cost
            latrines                            per completed
                                                unit

      (g)   school            2,670,000         57% of Unit Cost
            toilets                             per completed
                                                unit

      (h)   minor water       1,310,000         57%
            supply works
            including
            water treatment
            units and rain-
            water collectors

      (i)   minor sanitation    940,000         57%
            works including
            public/communal
            toilets, sullage
            removal units
            and waste water
            treatment units

                              __________

            Sub-total         32,450,000

(3)   Consultants’             4,410,000        100%
      services

(4)   Unallocated              9,800,000

                              __________

            TOTAL             85,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "Unit Cost" means the cost of each unit of
civil work, referred to in sub-categories (a), (b), (c), (d), (e),
(f), and (g) of Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 hereof, as
may be determined by the Borrower and the Bank from time to time.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,500,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
meet the basic needs of the rural population through the provision
of safe, adequate and easily accessible water supplies as well as
proper sanitation.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Rural Water Supply

1.    Provision of point source water supply to about 18,000 rural
barangays in the Project Provinces through the:

      (a)   construction of about 11,000 shallow wells (up to a
depth of 12 meters) and about 7,000 deep wells (up to a depth of 60
meters) all equipped with handpumps;

      (b)   rehabilitation of about 5,000 existing wells including
the supply of cylinders and replacement parts;

      (c)   development of about 1,000 springs including construc-
tion of spring boxes and laying of about 3,000 kilometers of trans-

mission pipelines;

      (d)   other minor civil works including provision of about 200
rainwater collectors and about 1,000 water treatment units; and

      (e)   construction of about twenty-five workshop buildings.

2.    Provision of equipment, materials and vehicles required for
carrying out Part A (1) of the Project.

Part B:     Rural Sanitation

1.    Provision of sanitation facilities to all the rural areas of
the Borrower including:

      (a)   provision of about 1,000,000 water-sealed pour-flush
toilet bowls for individual household latrines;

      (b)   construction of toilet facilities for about 1,000
schools;

      (c)   disinfection of about 1,000,000 contaminated wells;

      (d)   other minor civil works including construction and
provision of about 100 pilot communal/public toilets, about 1,000
sullage removal units, and about 100 wastewater treatment units; and

      (e)   provision of laboratory equipment for water quality
surveillance.

2.    Equipment and vehicles to carry out activities under Part B
(1) of the Project.

Part C:     Technical Assistance

      Provision of technical assistance for Project implementation,
preparation of Provincial Sector Plans, training and community
development, quality assurance and control, improvement of private
sector manufacturing and production capabilities of handpumps,
updating of the Sector Master Plan of the Borrower regarding the
water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector, and undertaking
feasibility and other studies for the preparation of future
projects.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1996                                  1,545,000
September 15, 1996                              1,605,000
March 15, 1997                                  1,670,000
September 15, 1997                              1,735,000
March 15, 1998                                  1,800,000
September 15, 1998                              1,870,000
March 15, 1999                                  1,945,000
September 15, 1999                              2,020,000
March 15, 2000                                  2,100,000
September 15, 2000                              2,180,000
March 15, 2001                                  2,265,000
September 15, 2001                              2,350,000
March 15, 2002                                  2,440,000
September 15, 2002                              2,535,000
March 15, 2003                                  2,635,000
September 15, 2003                              2,735,000
March 15, 2004                                  2,845,000

September 15, 2004                              2,955,000
March 15, 2005                                  3,070,000
September 15, 2005                              3,185,000
March 15, 2006                                  3,310,000
September 15, 2006                              3,440,000
March 15, 2007                                  3,570,000
September 15, 2007                              3,710,000
March 15, 2008                                  3,855,000
September 15, 2008                              4,005,000
March 15, 2009                                  4,160,000
September 15, 2009                              4,320,000
March 15, 2010                                  4,485,000
September 15, 2010                              4,660,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate
                                    (expressed as a per-
                                    centage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan
                                    on the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:

Not more than three years                 0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                 0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                   0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                 1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Republic of the

Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, adver-tised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Except as provided in paragraph 3 hereof, civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.

3.    Civil works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equi-
valent to $9,000,000 may be carried out by force account.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   with respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be fur-
nished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished
to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Bank, which shall include the following:

1.    The Borrower shall, for the purpose of ensuring overall coor-
dination of Project activities, establish and maintain a Project
Coordination Committee with functions, powers, funds and facilities
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall cause the provincial governments of the

Project Provinces to prepare, adopt and put into effect Provincial
Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans. The said plans
shall be satisfactory to the Bank and shall be prepared in accord-
ance with a format and schedule agreed to by the Borrower and the
Bank.

3.    The Borrower shall, to facilitate the preparation and imple-
mentation of the Provincial Sector Plans, designate one DLG staff
member to act as a Community Organizer in each of the Project
Provinces.

4.    The Borrower shall implement the Training and Community Devel-
opment Program agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank.

5.    The Borrower shall, through DPWH, provide one-year warranties
to Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Associations against defective
materials and faulty workmanship on completed wells and handpumps.

6.    The Borrower shall ensure quality control and obtain quality
assurance as agreed with the Bank in respect of specified goods
provided under the Project.

7.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1990, organize and conduct
a Project Launching Workshop in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

8.    The Borrower shall, commencing in 1991, undertake biennial
reviews of its water pricing policy and cost recovery principles and
shall discuss and implement the results and recommendations of such
review with the Bank by the end of the calendar year in which the
review is undertaken.

9.    The Borrower shall provide the Bank such information about the
involvement of women in the Project as may be reasonably requested
by the Bank and shall ensure that women have equal access to
membership and management roles in Barangay Waterworks and
Sanitation Associations.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allo-
cated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan

Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the res-
pective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any

amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

