d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3239 IN

              (Private Power Utilities (TEC) Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

       THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED

                                and

          THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED

                                and

                  THE TATA POWER COMPANY LIMITED

                       Dated October 3, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3239 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 3, 1990, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
of the one part and THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY
COMPANY LIMITED (Tata Hydro), THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER
SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED (Andhra Valley) and THE TATA POWER
COMPANY LIMITED (Tata Power), all being existing compa-
nies under the Companies Act, 1956 of the Guarantor
(collectively called the Borrowers), of the other part.

      WHEREAS (A) India, acting by its President (the
Guarantor) and the Borrowers, having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrowers in respect of the Loan;

      (C)   the Borrowers intend to contract from Interna-
tional Finance Corporation (IFC) a loan (the IFC Loan) in
an amount equivalent to $60,000,000 to assist in financ-
ing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (IFC Investment Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrowers and IFC; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrowers upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   the term "Borrowers" is substituted for the
term "Borrower" and

      (b)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Hydro Liens" means the liens created by Tata
Hydro to secure certain of its Debentures as set forth in
paragraph A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (b)   "Andhra Liens" means the liens created by
Andhra Valley to secure certain of its Debentures as set
forth in paragraph B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "Power Liens" means the liens created by Tata
Power to secure certain of its Debentures as set forth in
paragraph C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Joint Liens" means the liens created by the
Borrowers jointly to secure certain of their borrowings
as set forth in paragraph D of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;

      (e)   "Existing Liens" means the liens referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this Section;

      (f)   "Borrower" means any of the Borrowers;

      (g)   "Subsidiary" means any company which is a
subsidiary of any of the Borrowers within the meaning of
the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of the Guarantor;

      (h)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of India;

      (i)   "Licenses" means collectively the following
licenses:

            1.     Bombay (Hydro-Electric) License, 1907,
                   assigned to Tata Hydro on December 19,
                   1910;

            2.     The Andhra Valley (Hydro-Electric) Li-
                   cense, 1919, assigned to Andhra Valley
                   on September 13, 1919;

            3.     The Nila Mula Valley (Hydro-Electric)
                   License, 1921 of Tata Power; and

            4.     The Trombay Thermal Power Electric Li-
                   cense, 1953 of the Borrowers,
            and such term includes any and all amendments,
            extensions or renewals of the Licenses.

      (j)   "Electricity Act" means the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, as amended from time to time, of the
Guarantor;

      (k)   "Companies Act" means the Companies Act, 1956,
as amended from time to time, of the Guarantor;

      (l)   "Trust Deed" means the Trust Deed referred to
in Section 5.02 (f) of this Agreement, and such term
includes any deed supplemental thereto that may be
executed and delivered; and

      (m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrowers, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of ninety-eight million dollars ($98,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrowers shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in State Bank of India on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protec-
tion against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrowers and the Guaran-
tor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrowers shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings

determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrow-
ers shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrowers and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month
                   period ending on the date immediately
                   preceding each date specified in Section
                   2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                   the Interest Period in which this Agree-
                   ment is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                   cost, as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                   the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                   excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                   (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
                   after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                   rates determined otherwise than as pro-
                   vided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)        "Semester" means the first six
                         months or the second six months of
                         a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrowers, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrowers shall pay interest
            on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
            and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
            for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
            fied Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one per-
            cent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates speci-
            fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
            Borrowers shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the pre-
            ceding Interest Period, calculated at the
            rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
            end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
            Borrowers and the Guarantor of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
            period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
            1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrowers shall repay the princi-

pal amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortiza-
tion schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrowers declare their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

            Management and Operations of the Borrowers

      Section 4.01. The Borrowers shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrowers shall at all times
operate and maintain their plants, machinery, equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrowers shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrowers shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of their properties or assets
which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of
their businesses and undertakings, including the Project,
but the Borrowers shall be at liberty to dispose of any
of their properties or assets which are not so required.

      Section 4.05. Each of the Borrowers shall cause each
of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe and perform the
obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement to the
extent to which the same may be applicable thereto as
though such obligations were binding upon each such
subsidiary.

      Section 4.06. The Borrowers shall inform the Bank
prior to making any major changes in their organizational
structure or in the scope of activities handled by them
jointly or severally.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrowers shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance

with sound accounting practices their operations and
financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrowers shall:

            (i)    have their records, accounts and finan-
                   cial statements (balance sheets, state-
                   ments of income and expenses and related
                   statements) and the records and accounts
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appro-
                   priate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors accept-
                   able to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than
                   four months after the end of each such
                   year: (A) certified copies of their
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope
                   and in such detail as the Bank shall
                   have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrowers shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with para-
                   graph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after
                   the Bank has received the audit report
                   for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was
                   made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to
                   examine such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts
                   are included in the annual audit re-
                   ferred to in paragraph (b) of this Sec-
                   tion and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                   year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to sup-
                   port the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) The Borrowers shall, subject to
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and to
the priorities existing on charges created to the date of
this Agreement, create in favor of the Bank an equitable
mortgage/charge in such form as the Bank may reasonably
require to constitute by way of security for the Loan:

            (i)    a first specific charge upon all of
                   their immovable assets together with all

                   rights and interests appertaining to or
                   necessary for said assets to which the
                   Borrowers or any of them are now or may
                   hereafter become beneficially entitled,
                   such mortgage to rank in point of secu-
                   rity equally and ratably with
                   mortgages/charges upon the said assets
                   in respect of Existing Liens but prior
                   to any other lien upon the assets of the
                   Borrowers or any of them, now existing
                   or hereafter created;

           (ii)          an assignment by way of mortgage of
                         the Licenses, together with any
                         extensions, amendments or renewals
                         thereof such assignment to rank in
                         point of security equally and rat-
                         ably with the mortgages/charges
                         upon the Licenses in respect of the
                         Existing Liens but prior to any
                         other lien upon the Licenses now
                         existing or hereinafter created;
                         and

          (iii)    a first specific charge upon all movable
                   assets of the Borrowers, now  existing
                   or subsequently added thereto, together
                   with all rights and interests appertain-
                   ing to or necessary for said assets to
                   which the Borrowers or any of them are
                   now or may hereafter become beneficially
                   entitled such charge to rank in point of
                   security equally and ratably with the
                   Existing Liens upon the said assets but
                   prior to any other liens upon such as-
                   sets, now existing or hereafter created.

      (b)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.03 (b)
of the General Conditions, it is agreed that the Borrow-
ers may:

            (i)    (A)   create liens, ranking in point of
                         security equally and ratably with
                         the assignment of the Licenses
                         under sub-section (a) (ii) of this
                         Section and the first specific
                         charge referred to in sub-section
                         (a) (i) of this Section, upon all
                         the assets mentioned in said sub-
                         section together with all rights
                         and interests appertaining to or
                         necessary for said assets to which
                         the Borrowers or any of them are
                         now or may hereafter become benefi-
                         cially entitled; and

                   (B)   create liens, ranking in point of
                         security equally and ratably with
                         the first specific/floating charge
                         referred to in sub-section (a)
                         (iii) of this Section, upon all or
                         any assets of the Borrowers or any
                         of them referred to in said sub-
                         section;

                   for securing debts or borrowings, up to
                   an aggregate for all the Borrowers under
                   sub-paragraphs (A) and (B) of this para-
                   graph, of Rupees 3,700 million and $150
                   million or such other amount acceptable
                   to the Bank for the purposes of financ-
                   ing or refinancing capital investments

                   in addition to the investments required
                   for this Project; and

           (ii)    create liens, including hypothecations,
                   ranking in priority to the security
                   provided for in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section on current assets (stores, spare
                   parts and fuel including coal) securing
                   debts or borrowings maturing not more
                   than one year (at a time) from their
                   respective dates and incurred to bankers
                   in the ordinary course of business, in
                   an amount not exceeding in the aggregate
                   for all the Borrowers at any one time
                   Rupees 500 million or such other amount
                   acceptable to the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrowers undertake that no subsidiary (if
any) of any Borrower shall at any time without the
consent of the Bank create any lien on its undertakings
or assets (including uncalled capital) or any part
thereof otherwise than in favor of such Borrower and that
all liens created by any subsidiary of any Borrower in
favor of such Borrower shall be retained by such Borrower
and shall not be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed
of by it and that it will not sell, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any shares for the time being held by it in
any subsidiary.

      (d)   The Borrowers shall:

            (i)    take all necessary steps and shall re-
                   quire all other necessary parties to
                   take all necessary steps to ensure that
                   all liens, including the Existing Liens,
                   outstanding upon the assets and all
                   liens upon such assets to be created
                   under this Section 5.02 shall be dis-
                   charged or be varied to the reasonable
                   satisfaction of the Bank so as to ensure
                   that full effect may be given to the
                   foregoing provisions of this Section;
                   and

           (ii)    obtain all necessary consents for the
                   valid creation of aforesaid security and
                   shall duly register or file, or cause to
                   be duly registered or filed, as neces-
                   sary, such security in accordance with
                   the Companies Act, together with such
                   other documents as may be necessary or
                   proper in order to render the same fully
                   effective in accordance with its terms.

      (e)   The Borrowers shall secure all necessary
permissions from the Government of the State of Maharash-
tra to enable them to carry out their obligations under
this Section.

      (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section, the Borrowers shall, if required by the
Bank, convert the equitable mortgage to be created in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, into a
legal mortgage in English form by way of a Trust Deed in
favor of such trustees and in such form as the Bank may
reasonably require to constitute by way of security for
the Loan substantially in accordance with the foregoing
provisions of this Section 5.02.  To this end, the
Borrowers shall execute in favor of the Bank an irrevoca-
ble power of attorney authorizing the Bank,  inter alia,
to execute on behalf of the Borrowers a legal  mortgage
in English form as aforesaid.

      Section 5.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise
agree, if the Borrowers or any one of them shall directly
or indirectly pay or otherwise settle for a consider-
ation, before maturity, part or all of any outstanding
secured debt, the Borrowers or any of the Borrowers, as
the case may be, shall repay a proportionate part, or
all, as the case may be, of the Loan.

      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrowers shall not incur any debt, if after
the incurrence of such debt the aggregate principal
amount of debt of each Borrower then incurred and
outstanding would be greater than 2.0 times the equity of
such Borrower.  For the purposes of this Section:

      (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
            Borrowers maturing by its terms more than one
            year after the date on which it is originally
            incurred.

      (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
            a loan contract or agreement or other instru-
            ment providing for such debt or for the modi-
            fication of its terms of payment, on the date
            of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
            (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
            the agreement providing for such guarantee has
            been entered into but only to the extent that
            the guaranteed debt is outstanding.

      (iii)        The term "equity of the Borrower" means
                   the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up
                   capital, retained earnings and reserves
                   of each Borrower not allocated to cover
                   specific liabilities.

      (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
            shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
            currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
            another currency, such valuation shall be made
            on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
            exchange at which such other currency is, at
            the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
            purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
            absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate
            of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)   The Borrowers shall, by December 31 of each
year, furnish to the Bank their financial projections
covering their current and next four financial years
projected performance.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)   the Memorandum or the Articles of Association
of any of the Borrowers as at the date of this Agreement
shall have been amended without the prior consent of the
Bank;

      (b)   the Licenses shall have been amended, abrogat-
ed, waived, assigned, suspended or revoked without prior
consent of the Bank; and

      (c)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
paragraph:

                 (A)     The right of the Borrowers to with-
                         draw the proceeds of any loan made
                         to the Borrowers for the financing
                         of the Project shall have been
                         suspended, cancelled or terminated
                         in whole or in part, pursuant to
                         the terms of the agreement provid-
                         ing therefor; or

                 (B)     any such loan shall have become due
                         and payable prior to the agreed
                         maturity thereof.

            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
                   not apply if the Borrowers establish to
                   the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
                   such suspension, cancellation, termina-
                   tion or prematuring is not caused by the
                   failure of the Borrowers to perform any
                   of their obligations under such agree-
                   ment; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrowers
                   from other sources on terms and condi-
                   tions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrowers under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   a valid security in favor of the Bank, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been created
to secure the Loan;

      (b)   the power of attorney referred to in Section
5.02 (f) of this Agreement has been executed;

      (c)   the Borrowers have received all such environ-
mental clearances from the governmental authorities as
shall be necessary for the construction of the combined
cycle generating scheme under Part C of the Project; and

      (d)   all conditions precedent to disbursement of the
proceeds of the IFC Loan specified in Section 5.01 of the
IFC Investment Agreement, except for those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.

      Section 7.02.  The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that all action necessary or proper in order to create a
valid security in favor of the Bank, in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken to secure
the Loan.

      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

            Representative of the Borrowers; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Managing Director and the Joint
Managing Director of the Borrowers are severally desig-
nated as representative of the Borrowers for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condi-
tions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 82987 (FTCC)
                   Washington, D.C.               197688 (TRT)
                                            248423 (RCA)
or
                                             64145 (WUI)

      For the Borrowers:

            Tata Electric Companies
            Bombay House
            Homi Mody Street
            Bombay 400001
            India

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   HYDROCO                   1182618
                   Bombay

                                           Fax:  2045359

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                         THE TATA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY
                           COMPANY LIMITED

                         THE ANDHRA VALLEY POWER SUPPLY
                           COMPANY LIMITED

                         THE TATA POWER COMPANY LIMITED

                         By /s/ H. N. Sethna
                            /s/ K. M. Gherda
                                        Authorized Representatives

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category           Equivalent)              Financed

(1)      Equipment, materials
    and related erection:

    (a) Equipment and         90,000,000        100% of foreign
        materials                               expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)

    (b) Erection of plants,     5,000,000       100% of
foreign
         transmission lines                      expenditures and
        and substations                         70% of
local
                                                expendi-
tures

(2)      Consultants’                     1,000,000  100% of
foreign
    services
expenditures

(3)      Unallocated                      2,000,000
                               __________

    TOTAL                      98,000,000
                               ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Guaran-
tor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made

on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after May 31, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to provide
additional peak generation capacity in Bombay, increase
capacity utilization of existing plants, augment emission
control measures and improve system reliability.

      The Project consists of the following parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrowers
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:

      The construction of a 150 MW pumped storage scheme
at existing hydro-electric power plant of the Borrowers
at Bhira.

      The expansion of transmission link to evacuate
additional power to the Borrower’s licensed area, the
upgrading of transmission lines from Bhira to Dharavi to
220 kV, and the extension of the Dharavi sub-station.

      The construction of a 180 MW gas based combined
cycle generating scheme with one 120 MW gas turbine-
generator, a recovery boiler, and one 60 MW steam
turbine-generator and associated auxiliaries.

      The extension of flue gas desulphurization facility
in the Borrower’s Trombay plant, Unit No. 5.

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

Part D:

Part E:

      (i)   The review of design and technical specifica-
            tions, and supervision of construction of the
            Bhira pumped storage scheme through utiliza-
            tion of consultants’ services; and

      (ii)        The acquisition of know-how for the
                  extension of the flue gas desulpherizati-
                  on facilities at the Borrowers’ Trombay
                  plant.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March
31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                          (expressed in
dollars)*

      March 15, 1996                                  1,785,000
      September 15, 1996                        1,855,000
      March 15, 1997                                  1,925,000
      September 15, 1997                        2,000,000
      March 15, 1998                                  2,075,000

      September 15, 1998                        2,160,000
      March 15, 1999                                  2,240,000
      September 15, 1999                        2,330,000
      March 15, 2000                                  2,420,000
      September 15, 2000                        2,510,000
      March 15, 2001                                  2,610,000
      September 15, 2001                        2,710,000
      March 15, 2002                                  2,815,000
      September 15, 2002                        2,925,000
      March 15, 2003                                  3,040,000
      September 15, 2003                        3,155,000
      March 15, 2004                                  3,280,000
      September 15, 2004                        3,405,000
      March 15, 2005                                  3,535,000
      September 15, 2005                        3,675,000
      March 15, 2006                                  3,815,000
      September 15, 2006                        3,965,000
      March 15, 2007                                  4,120,000
      September 15, 2007                        4,275,000
      March 15, 2008                                  4,445,000
      September 15, 2008                        4,615,000
      March 15, 2009                                  4,795,000
      September 15, 2009                        4,980,000
      March 15, 2010                                  5,175,000
      September 15, 2010                        5,365,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
      lents determined as of the respective dates of
      withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
      and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, the premium payable on the principal amount of any
maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percent-
age specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (ex-
                                     pressed as a percentage
                                     per annum) applicable to
                                     the Loan on the day of
                                     prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Items or groups of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrowers in carrying out the

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed outof the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

Project, the Borrowers shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrowers shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrowers, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrowers shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Ac-
                   count, the Borrowers shall furnish to
                   the Bank requests for deposits into the
                   Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrowers shall furnish to
                   the Bank the documents and other evi-
                   dence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                   of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenish-
                   ment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrowers, withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrowers
                   shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expendi-
                   tures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrowers out of the
Special Account, the Borrowers shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrowers directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrowers.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrowers
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrowers have provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrowers shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)   The Borrowers may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions

of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Existing Liens

A.    Hydro Liens

      (i) First Debentures 15% (1991-95); (ii) ’B’ Second
Debentures 11% (1991-95); and (iii) Third Debentures 11%
(1991-95) having mortgage/charge on the immovable
properties, plant and licenses of Tata Hydro and floating
charge on all of Tata Hydro’s other assets.

B.    Andhra Liens

      (i) First Debentures 11% (1991-95); (ii) Second
Debentures 11% (1991-95); (iii) Third Debentures 15%
(1991-95); and (iv) Fourth Debentures 11% (1991-95)
having mortgage/charge on the immovable properties, plant
and licenses of Andhra Valley and floating charge on all
of Andhra Valley’s other assets.

C.    Power Liens

      (i) First Debentures 11% (1991-95); (ii) ’B’ Second
Debentures 11% (1991-95); (iii) Third Debentures 11%
(1991-95); (iv) Fourth Debentures 15% (1991-95); and (v)
’B’ Fifth Debentures 11% (1991-95) having mortgage/charge
on the immovable properties, plant and licenses of Tata
Power and floating charge on all of Tata Power’s other
assets.

D.    Joint Liens

      Following borrowings made and secured by mort-
gage/charges on the immovable properties, plants and
licenses of the Borrowers or any of them and floating
charge on other assets of the Borrowers or any of them,
in respect of their facilities financed under Third
Trombay Thermal Power Project (Loan No. 1549-IN) and
Fourth Trombay Thermal Power Project (Loan No. 2542-IN),
and modernization and reinforcement of their transmission
and distribution facilities:

            (i)    The Bank loans for $105,000,000 and
                   $135,400,000;

           (ii)    Industrial Development Bank of India
                   loans for Rs 210,100,000 and Rs 240,000-
                   ,000;

          (iii)          Industrial Finance Corporation of
                         India loans for Rs 97,000,000 and
                         Rs 80,000,000;

           (iv)          Industrial Credit and Investment
                         Corporation of India loans for Rs
                         97,000,000 and Rs 80,000,000;

            (v)          Life Insurance Corporation of India
                         loans for Rs 93,800,000 and Rs
                         150,000,000;

           (vi)          General Insurance Corporation of
                         India loans (including its subsid-
                         iaries) for Rs 19,400,000 and Rs
                         80,000,000;

          (vii)          State Bank of India loans for Rs
                         64,700,000 and Rs 200,000,000;

         (viii)          Unit Trust of India by way of sub-
                         scription to debentures of Rs 129,-
                         300,000 and a loan for Rs 150,000,-
                         000;

           (ix)          Government of Maharashtra loan for
                         Rs 40,000,000; and

            (x)          IFC Loan for Swiss Francs 60,000,0-
                         00.

