d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3264 HU

                (Second Telecommunications Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

               HUNGARIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY

                      Dated October 29, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3264 HU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUNGARIAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Establishment Resolution" means Resolution No. 965,
292/1989, dated December 20, 1989, of the Guarantor’s Minister of
Transport, Communications and Construction, pertaining to the
establishment and operations of the Borrower;

      (b)   "Action Plan" means the Borrower’s plan of actions for
the further development of its organization, management, operations
and financial condition over the 1991-1993 period and whose outline
is set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Unit" means the Project unit established by the
Borrower and to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in National
Bank of Hungary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding

during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined other-
                   wise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The President of the National Bank of Hungary,
or such other person or persons as said President shall designate in
writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Unit with
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to
coordinate, supervise and report on project execution and the
procurement of goods and services therefor; and (ii) employ, as
needed, consultants with qualifications and experience and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the
carrying out of the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate number; (ii) at
all times take all steps required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business; and (iii) by July 1, 1991, reconstitute itself as
a joint-stock company under the laws of the Guarantor.

      (b)   Without limitation on the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    carry out the Action Plan with due diligence and
                   efficiency and all times take all necessary
                   action to achieve the objectives thereof;

           (ii)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to
                   enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance
                   with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
                   carrying out of the Action Plan and the achieve-
                   ment of the objectives thereof;

          (iii)    prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and
                   comments, by May 31 and November 30 of each
                   year, progress reports, in form and substance
                   satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress
                   achieved in the carrying out of the Action Plan
                   and the measures recommended to sustain and
                   further such progress based on the results of
                   the monitoring and evaluation activities per-
                   formed pursuant to subparagraph (ii) of this
                   paragraph; and

            (iv)   by June 30 of each year, update the Action Plan
                   and thereafter implement the measures required
                   to ensure the achievement of the objectives
                   thereof, taking into consideration the conclu-
                   sions and recommendations of the progress re-
                   ports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of
                   this paragraph and the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a copy
of each of the studies provided under Part B (2) of the Project upon

its completion; and

      (b)   thereafter, develop and carry out, on the basis of a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank, a plan of action to achieve the
objectives of such study, taking into consideration the recommenda-
tions thereof and the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, facilities, machinery, equipment, installations
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and telecommunications practices.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
                  tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of

                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 40% of the annual average of the
Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year.

      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources relat-
                        ed to operations, consumer deposits and
                        consumer contributions in aid of construc-
                        tion, net non-operating income and any
                        reduction in working capital other than
                        cash; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions, including administration, adequate
                        maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                        of taxes (excluding provision for deprecia-
                        tion and other non-cash operating charges),
                        debt service requirements, all cash divi-
                        dends and other cash distributions of
                        surplus, increase in working capital other
                        than cash and other cash outflows other
                        than capital expenditures.
           (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)   The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  fiscal year.

           (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under the circumstances then existing be called
                  for payment within twelve months, including
                  accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                  requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                  taxes, and dividends.

           (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

          (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
                  ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations.

         (viii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn an annual return of not less than 18% for
its fiscal year after its fiscal year ending December 3l, 1990, 20%
for its fiscal year after its fiscal year ending December 31, 1991
and 22% for its fiscal year ending December 31, 1992 and for each of
its fiscal years thereafter, of the average current net value of the
Borrower’s fixed assets in operation.

      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  the Borrower’s net operating income for the
                  fiscal year in question by one half of the sum of
                  the current net value of the Borrower’s fixed
                  assets in operation at the beginning and at the
                  end of that fiscal year.

           (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.

          (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means reve-
                  nues from all sources related to operations.

           (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including admin-
                  istration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
                  ments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depre-
                  ciation on a basis acceptable to the Bank, but
                  excluding interest and other charges on debt.

            (v)   The average current gross value of the Borrower’s

                  fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
                  one half of the sum of the gross value of the
                  Borrower’s fixed assets in operation at the
                  beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
                  valued from time to time in accordance with sound
                  and consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.

           (vi)   The term "current net value of the Borrower’s
                  fixed assets in operation" means the gross value
                  of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation less
                  the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
                  from time to time in accordance with sound and
                  consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least three times
the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year
on all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally in-
                  curred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources relat-
                        ed to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions including administration, adequate
                        maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, but excluding provision for depreci-
                        ation, other non-cash operating charges and
                        interest and other charges on debt.

           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
                  payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                  months prior to the incurrence of the debt in

                  question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                  accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                  notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                  provided that no event has occurred since such
                  notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material ad-
                  verse effect on the financial condition or future
                  operating results of the Borrower.

          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Establishment Resolution shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                            Termination

      Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the General Manager of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Hungarian Telecommunications
               Company
            H-1541 Budapest
            Krisztina krt 6-8
            Republic of Hungary

                                          Telex:

                                             22-1193-H

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                        HUNGARIAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY

                        By /s/ Pal Horvath
                                         Authorized Representative

                             SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Goods                    140,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)

(2)   Consultants’               2,000,000      100%
      services and
      training

      Unallocated                8,000,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                    150,000,000
                               ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for

goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its programs of investments and institutional develop-
ment over the period 1991-1993 to rehabilitate and expand its
telecommunications facilities and strengthen its management and
operations.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

      Carrying out of a program to improve and expand the Borrower’s
telecommunications network and facilities, including the provision
and installation of (1) an overlay digital long-distance network;
(2) international telecommunications network, including Intelsat and
Eutelsat ground stations, gateway exchange, international telephone
circuits and telex and data circuits; (3) local switching capacity
and associated local networks and subscriber plant for connection of
new subscribers, the majority of which will be high-volume business
subscribers; (4) rural network fiber optic and microwave transmis-
sion systems; (5) an expanded mobile radio telephone network; (6)
expanded telex and data services; and (7) public card pay phones.

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower’s
organization, management and operations, including:

      (1)   development and implementation of: (a) a comprehensive
master plan for the management and development of human resources
and the streamlining of organizational structures; (b) suitable
management information, accounting and staff incentive systems to
increase efficiency and productivity; (c) a suitable marketing
strategy and a competitive procurement system; (d) an optimal
digitalization strategy; (e) a program of defined measures to
improve the efficiency of investments in network expansion and of
the utilization of existing network; and

      (2)   provision of studies to develop appropriate strategies
for further automatization of telephone operations, development of
new telecommunications services, rationalization of telecommunica-
tions tariffs, expansion of telephone services provided through
special arrangements with customers’ associations and upgrading of
operational policies based on transparent performance criteria; and

      (3)   provision of management and staff training in the
management of commercial telecommunications operations and in the
applications of modern telecommunications technology.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

      On each May 15 and November 15

         beginning May 15, 1996                  7,500,000
         through November 15, 2005

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Guarantor’s
territory, may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods, including technical licenses, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Goods, including technical licenses, which the Bank agrees (a)
are of proprietary nature, (b) the timely supply thereof is critical
for efficient Project execution, or (c) need to be compatible with
other installed equipment, may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to: (A) consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for

the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated

to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining

unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                        Action Plan Outline

      The Action Plan describes the program of objectives, policies
and actions designated to facilitate the efficient implementation of
the Borrower’s institutional development strategy to further develop
its organization, management and operations. It indicates the
measures to be undertaken by the Borrower pursuant to the Action
Plan and the time frame within which these measures will be
initiated and completed. It includes, inter alia:

      (1)   the measures to define and incorporate in a formal
corporate plan, and, thereafter, achieve the Borrower’s institu-
tional, strategic and operational objectives and policies, including
those relating to (a) the implementation of a detailed strategy for
improving the process of consultation and coordination with other
enterprises operating within the Guarantor’s telecommunications
manufacturing subsector and for fostering competition within said
subsector through the adoption and application of suitable competi-
tive procurement policies, including the gradual introduction of a
competitive purchasing process which will ensure that, by Decem-
ber 31, 1993, the percentage of purchases subject to such competi-
tive process, within the overall purchases of the Borrower in any
fiscal year, shall be at least twice the percentage of the purchase
subjected to such a competitive process during the twelve months
period preceding the date of this Agreement, (b) the establishment
and operation of separate commercial offices based on service and
customers classes, including the implementation of an action plan to
ascertain on a regular basis, and effectively respond to, the needs
for telecommunications services of high volume business and other
subscriber communities, and the establishment and maintenance of
suitable special offices for these purposes, and (c) the design and
implementation of measures required for the efficient commer-
cialization of operations, inter alia, to facilitate the privatiza-

tion of such operations, including the conclusion of twinning
arrangements with international telecommunications companies to
advance these objectives;

      (2)   the measures to develop and implement a plan for
improving the Borrower’s operational efficiency, including the
reduction of the operational cost (excluding depreciation) of direct
exchange telephone lines and of the number of workers employed in
the operation of the same;

      (3)   the measures to develop and implement a plan for
improving the quality of services provided by the Borrower,
including the reduction of the number of faulty telephones service,
the shortening of the time required to repair faulty telephone
services, and the increasing of the composite quality of service
index;

      (4)   the measures to develop and implement a plan for
improving the Borrower’s investment efficiency, including the
reduction of the equipment unit cost of installed capacity,
shortening the time of construction and capacity installation and
reduction of installation labor cost;

      (5)   the procedures to develop and carry out plans of action
to achieve the objectives of the studies provided under Part B (2)
of the Project in accordance with the provision of Section 4.02 of
this Agreement; and

      (6)   the procedures to monitor, evaluate, update and carry
out the specific measures required to ensure the achievement of the
objectives of the Action Plan in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.

