d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3229 HU

             (Integrated Agricultural Export Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                     NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY

                        Dated June 29, 1990

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3229 HU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF
HUNGARY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Guarantor intends to obtain grant funds from donors
who are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in an amount of fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000)
equivalent to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms
and conditions to be set forth in grant agreements to be entered
into between each donor and the Guarantor;

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date

herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Bank pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided by the
Borrower to a Participating Bank (defined below) under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

      (d)   "Participating Bank" means any banking institution which
satisfies the conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement and which shall have entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower;

      (e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank, out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan, to a Beneficiary (defined below) for a Sub-project;

      (f)   "Beneficiary" means any large scale farm (defined below)
or marketing company or agroprocessing enterprise (whose gross sales
were less than two million ($2,000,000) equivalent during its
previous fiscal year) or small scale farmer (defined below) or
contractor of farm services or rural entrepreneur;

      (g)   "large scale farm" means any cooperative or state farm
or association of cooperatives or state farms or economic
associations whose primary activity is agricultural production;

      (h)   "small scale farmer" means any individual farmer
(including any part-time farmer) or farmer who is a member of an
agricultural cooperative or farm employees of state farms or farmers
organized into a group;

      (i)   "Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out
by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (j)   "Basic Law" means Law Decree No. 36 of 1967, of the
Presidential Council of the Guarantor, as amended to the date of
this Agreement; and

      (k)   "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the Monetary and Credit
Policy Guidelines regulating the provision of credit by the
Borrower, established by Resolution No. 1166/1989 dated December 28,
1989, of the Council of Ministers of the Guarantor.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of

this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, administrative, financial and economic practices in
accordance with the Basic Law and the Credit Policy Guidelines, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to the Participating Banks the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan referred to in Part A.1 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement under subsidiary loan agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Participating
Banks, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, or any provision thereof; and (ii) coordinate and
monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise the
carrying out by the Participating Banks of their respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with policies and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting

practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Part A of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and
                  accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than five months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                  accounts for such year as so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Basic Law or the Credit Policy Guidelines shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and two Participating Banks.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely that each of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and a Participating Bank
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such Participating Bank
in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International
              Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary

            Cable address:                Telex:

             BANKO                          227267 SMAFU-H,
                  Budapest                  225755 BANKO-H or
                                            227028 BANKO-H

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                        NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY

                        By /s/ Istvan Ipper
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Goods and            100,000,000          100% of foreign
      consultants’                              expenditures and
      services                                  100% of local ex-
      under Part A                              penditures (ex-
      of the Project                            factory cost) for
                                                goods and 75% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                of other items of
                                                goods and related
                                                services procured
                                                locally and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of con-
                                                sultants domiciled
                                                within the terri-
                                                tory of the Guar-
                                                antor and 100%
                                                of foreign expen-
                                                ditures for ser-
                                                vices of other
                                                consultants and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                technical licenses
                                                and marketing
                                                activities

                           ___________

            TOTAL          100,000,000
                           ===========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the

currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures by a small farmer under a Sub-loan
made by a Participating Bank before that date but after January 1,
1990; and

      (b)   Sub-loans except for expenditures by a Beneficiary under
a Sub-loan made by a Participating Bank after the Bank shall have
communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence that a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of, and is
legally binding upon, the Borrower and such Participating Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide quality food
products for export either as raw material or as inputs into
agroprocessed goods; and (b) improve the efficiency of agricultural
producers by providing additional financial resources to small
scale, private farmers and by modernizing agrobusiness methods and
practices of managers of large scale farms.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

      The financing, through the provision of loans, including
Sub-loans, by the Participating Banks of Sub-projects by
Beneficiaries for: (1) planting material, breeding stock, fattening
stock, machinery and equipment for the improvement of crop and
livestock production, including construction materials and equip-
ment for buildings for crop and livestock production; (2) non-
agricultural activities of agricultural enterprises, such as
services and manufacturing; (3) storage and commodity handling
facilities of both large scale farms and small scale farmers; (4)
small scale agroprocessing activities; (5) marketing and sales
promotion; and (6) activities of contractors of farm services and
rural entrepreneurs supporting agricultural or agroprocessing
activities or engaged in village tourism.

      The carrying out of a program of technical assistance and
training for the development of:

(1)   marketing schemes for the domestic and export markets;

(2)   management and farming techniques of small scale farmers;

(3)   local consultant services, primarily for business planning;

(4)  livestock advisory services; and

(5)   an agricultural insurance program.

               *            *                   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

      beginning December 15, 1995
      through June 15, 2005                     5,000,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a per-
                                     centage per annum)
                                     applicable to the
                                     Loan on the day of
                                     prepayment multi-
                                     plied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees: (a) are of
proprietary nature; (b) the timely supply thereof is critical for
efficient Project execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other
installed equipment may be procured through direct negotiations with
the proprietors thereof, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers in accordance with standard commercial practices.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure

or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 6

               Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                     Subsidiary Loan Agreement

      Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall
apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Terms

1.    The aggregate amount to be made available by the Borrower to
a Participating Bank under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Guarantor (determined
as of the respective date or dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the
cost of goods and services for the Sub-projects to be carried out
under Sub-loans made by such Participating Bank and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (1).

2.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time interest at a
rate of not less than the refinancing rate charged from time to time
by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Policy Guidelines.

3.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount
thereof not withdrawn and outstanding from time to time a commitment
fee at a rate equal to the commitment fee on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn and outstanding from time to time as set
forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

4.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be for a period not exceeding
fifteen years, including a grace period not exceeding five years.

5.    The right of a Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds
of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) suspended upon
failure by such Participating Bank to perform any of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (b) terminated
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to paragraph (a)
hereof for a continuous period of sixty days.

B.   Conditions

      A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a banking
institution, duly established and operating under the laws of the
Guarantor, which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank
shall have agreed, that such institution:

1.    is operating pursuant to an official lending and investment
policy statement, which the Bank and the Borrower shall have judged
acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policy statement;

2.    has a sound financial structure and the organization,
management, staff and other resources required for the efficient
carrying out of its operations and affairs and has undertaken:
(a) to carry out the same in accordance with its lending and
investment policy statement, referred to in paragraph 1 hereof, and
with sound financial standards and practices; and (b) to provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the carrying out of its activities under Part
A of the Project;

3.    has undertaken to:

      (a)   incorporate into its training program, training for the
further strengthening of its staff capabilities in servicing small
scale farmers;

      (b)   assign or employ one full-time qualified agricultural
credit officer for each branch which has reached a level of 200
loans made to small scale farmers per year or which has reached a
level of 1,000 loans in its loan portfolio; and

      (c)   employ, as may be determined necessary by the Borrower,
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of  reference
satisfactory to the Borrower, to assist it in the carrying out its
activities under Part A of the Project.

4.    has adopted and undertaken to maintain suitable procedures to
enable it effectively to:

      (a)   (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for Sub-projects
under Part A of the Project on the basis of the criteria, procedures
and terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule,
(ii) exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-project in
such a manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, comply with its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of
Part A of the Project, and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any
provisions thereof, without the prior approval of the Borrower;

      (b)   carry out its activities under Part A of the Project,
appraise Sub-projects, and supervise, monitor and report on the
carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, including the
procurement of the goods and services therefor, in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;

      (c)   exchange views with, and furnish all such information
to, the Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the
Bank or the Borrower, with regard to the progress of its activities
under Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of Part A of the Project; and

      (d)   promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its activities under Part A of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes thereof, or the performance of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

5.    has undertaken to:

      (a)   maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in

accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial conditions;

      (b)   have its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and the Borrower;

      (c)   furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than five months after the end
of each such year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the Borrower
shall have reasonably requested; and

      (d)   furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, such other
information concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or the
Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request.

                       ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6

                  Principal Terms and Conditions
                         of the Sub-loans

      The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Annex shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 4 (a) (i) of
Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawals from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of the goods and
services for the Sub-project to be carried out under such Sub-loan
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Category (1).

2.    Sub-loans shall each be made by a Participating Bank for a
period not exceeding ten years, including a grace period not
exceeding three years, and on other terms, including those relating
to interest and other charges, which are in accordance with the
lending and investment policy statement of such Participating Bank.

3.    Sub-loans in the principal amount in excess of $300,000
equivalent shall be made only to those Beneficiaries who each shall
have:

      (a)   established, to the satisfaction of the Participating
Bank making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank, that: (i) it is creditworthy; (ii) its projected cash
generation or equity increases shall be sufficient to enable it to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the Sub-project; (iii)
it is in a position to continue to maintain a debt to equity ratio
of not more than 65:35, a debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.5:1, and a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
not less than 1.3:1;

      (b)   established that the Sub-project shall have a financial
rate of return and an economic rate of return in real terms of at
least 12%, as shall be calculated to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Participating Bank on the basis of an appraisal
carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank;
and

      (c)   developed and undertaken to carry out a business plan,
satisfactory to the Participating Bank, on the basis of criteria and
methodology satisfactory to the Bank, describing their markets,
operations and financing arrangements.

4.    Sub-loans in the principal amount of $300,000 equivalent or
less shall be made only to those Beneficiaries who qualify on the
basis of the present criteria of Participating Banks for determining
creditworthiness and Sub-project viability.

5.    Sub-loans shall be made only to those small scale farmers whoeach shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Participating
Bank making the Sub-loan that it has:

      (a)   (i) previous farming experience; (ii) adequate assets;
(iii) satisfactory capacity to repay the Sub-loan based on farm
income (including income from the proposed investment) and income
from non-farm sources; and (iv) adequate collateral for the Sub-
loan; and

      (b)   developed and undertaken to carry out a farm plan
satisfactory to the Participating Bank.

6.    Sub-loans shall be made only for Sub-projects which are each
determined to be technically feasible and designed in accordance
with appropriate safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    Each Sub-loan for a Sub-project for non-agricultural
activities shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.

8.    No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of the Sub-loan for such Sub-project and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request
and information required under paragraph 9 of this Annex in respect
of such Sub-loan.

9.    Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Sub-loan shall
contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-
project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.

10.   The Participating Bank shall:

      (a)   open, by the date on which it shall receive the first
payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal
under, a Sub-loan and thereafter maintain a separate account on its
books in accordance with its normal financial practices and on
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower; and

      (b)   upon receipt of each such payment or repayments under
each Sub-loan, credit the same to the said separate account. All
amounts to be so credited to the said separate account shall be
utilized by the Participating Bank, to the extent they are not yet
required to meet the Participating Bank’s payment obligations to the
Borrower under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement, exclusively to finance
projects similar to Sub-projects in accordance with the Credit
Policy Guidelines.

11.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating
Bank making such Sub-loan shall obtain, by written contract or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect such Partici-
pating Bank’s interests and those of the Bank and the Borrower:

      (a)   require that each Beneficiary shall undertake to:

            (i)    carry out and operate the Sub-project with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
                   safety, health and environmental standards,
                   satisfactory to the Bank, and with sound
                   technical, financial and managerial standards

                   and practices and provide, promptly as needed,
                   the funds, facilities and other resources
                   required for the purpose;

           (ii)    procure the goods and services to be financed
                   out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
                   with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
                   Agreement, and use such goods and services
                   exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-
                   project;

          (iii)    enable the Participating Bank, the Bank and the
                   Borrower to inspect such goods and the sites and
                   works included in the Sub-project, the operation
                   thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

           (iv)    take out and maintain such insurance, against
                   such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
                   consistent with sound business practice
                   including, without limitation, such insurance to
                   cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
                   transportation and delivery of goods financed
                   out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
                   use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
                   be made payable in a currency freely usable by
                   the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;

            (v)    if the Beneficiary is a large scale farm or
                   agroprocessing enterprise or marketing company,
                   maintain the debt to equity and debt service
                   coverage ratios and the ratio of current assets
                   to current liabilities as specified in paragraph
                   3 (a) (iii) of this Annex;

           (vi)    if the Beneficiary is a large scale farm or
                   agroprocessing enterprise or marketing company,
                   and the proposed sub-loan exceeds $300,000
                   equivalent, carry out the business plan referred
                   to in paragraph 3 (c) of this Annex or, if the
                   Beneficiary is a small scale farmer, carry out
                   the farm plan referred to in paragraph 5 (b) of
                   this Annex in such manner so as to achieve the
                   objectives thereof;

          (vii)    prepare and furnish to the Participating Bank,
                   for forwarding to the Borrower as may be
                   requested by the Bank or the Borrower, all such
                   information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
                   reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to
                   its administration, operations and financial
                   condition and to the benefits to be derived from
                   the Sub-project; and

         (viii)    (A)   maintain records and accounts adequate to
                         reflect in accordance with consistently
                         maintained sound accounting practices its
                         operations and financial conditions;

                   (B)   have its financial statements (balance
                         sheets, income statements and cash flow
                         statements) for each fiscal year audited,
                         in accordance with appropriate auditing
                         principles consistently applied, by
                         independent auditors acceptable to the
                         Bank and the Borrower;

                   (C)   furnish to the Participating Bank, for
                         forwarding to the Borrower as may be
                         requested by the Bank or the Borrower, as
                         soon as available, but in any case not
                         later than five months after the end of
                         each such year certified copies of its

                         financial statements for such year as so
                         audited, and the report of such audit by
                         said auditors, of such scope and in such
                         detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall
                         have reasonably requested; and

                   (D)   furnish to the Participating Bank, for
                         forwarding to the Borrower as may be
                         requested by the Bank or the Borrower,
                         such other information concerning said
                         accounts, financial statements and
                         records, as well as the audit thereof, as
                         the Bank or the Borrower shall from time
                         to time reasonably request; and

      (b)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract with the Participating
Bank.

