d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3174 JM

                    Loan Agreement

         (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan)

                        between

                        JAMAICA

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated March 23, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3174 JM

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1990, between JAMAICA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated
November 2, 1989 from the Borrower describing a program
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s agricultural
sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing
of urgently needed imports required during such
execution; and

     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the

Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:

     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified
to read:

     ’Project’ means the imports and other activities
     that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
     Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to
     the Loan Agreement. ";

     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

     "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
     Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
     purpose between the Borrower and the Bank,  the
     Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
     report, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
     the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
     Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
     Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
     the Loan. n; and

     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev.3 (1986); and

     (b)  "J$" means Jamaican dollars, the currency unit
of the Borrower.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to  the
amount of twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 30,
1991 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

     (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
           ending on the date  immediately preceding
           each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
           Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
           in which this Agreement is signed.

     (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
           cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
           and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
           the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn
           down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
           borrowings or portion" thereof as the Bank
           has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
           investments; and (B) loans which may be made
           by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
           interest rates determined otherwise that as
           provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

     (iii) "Semesters means the first six months or the
           second six months of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

           "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

           "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

           "(c)  (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.08.  (a)  Bank of Jamaica is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.

     (b)  Without limitation or restriction to the
foregoing, the Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of
Jamaica with responsibility for the preparation of
withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal
of aggregate amounts of not less than $250,000
equivalent.

                      ARTICLE III

                 Particular Covenants

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and
cogent a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

     (i)   have  the records  and accounts  referred to
           in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
           fiscal year audited, in accordance with
           appropriate auditing principles consistently
           applied, by independent auditors acceptable
           to the Bank;

     (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
           in any case not later than four months after
           the end of each such year, a certified copy
           of the report of such audit by said auditors,
           of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
           shall have reasonably requested; and

     (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
           concerning said records and accounts and the
           audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
           time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

     (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
           accordance with paragraph (a) of this
           Section, records and accounts reflecting such
           expenditures;

     (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
           Bank has received the audit report for the
           fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
           the Loan Account was made, all records
           (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
           receipts and other documents) evidencing such
           expenditures;

     (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
           such records; and

     (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
           included in the annual audits referred to in
           paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
           report of such audit contains a separate
           opinion by said auditors as to whether the
           statements of expenditure submitted during
           such fiscal year, together with the
           procedures and internal controls involved in
           their preparation, can be relied upon to
           support the related withdrawals.

                      ARTICLE IV

            Additional Events of Suspension

     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The date June 26, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a)
of this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the

Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

           Ministry of Finance and Planning
           30 National Heroes Circle
           Kingston
           Jamaica

           Cable address:          Telex:

           Ministry of Finance     2447 MINFAN
           Kingston

     For the Bank:

           International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America

           Cable address:          Telex:
           INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT)
           Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA)
                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                   82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                    JAMAICA

                     By /s/ Keith Johnson
                              Authorized Representative

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                      By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                Regional Vice President
                        Latin America and the Caribbean

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect

of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)   expenditures for goods included in the
following SITC groups or sub-groups, or any successor
groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC,
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

     Group          Sub-group      Description of Items

     112               -           Alcoholic beverages

     121               -           Tobacco, unmanu-
                                   factured, tobacco
                                   refuse

     122               -           Tobacco, manufactured
                                   (whether or not
                                   containing tobacco
                                   substitutes)

     525               -           Radioactive and
                                   associated materials

     667               -           Pearls, precious and
                                   semi-precious stones,

     718            718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                   parts thereof, fuel
                                   elements (cartridges),
                                   non-irradiated for
                                   nuclear reactors

     897            897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                   silver or platinum
                                   group metals (except
                                   watches and watch
                                   cases) and goldsmiths’
                                   or silversmiths’ wares
                                   (including set gems)

     971               -           Gold, non-monetary
                                   (excluding gold ores
                                   and concentrates)

     (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

    (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after October 31,
1989;

    (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $5,000 equivalent;

    (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution
or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or
agreed to finance;

    (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military
or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;

    (g)  expenditures for petroleum products, or in
excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000,

for foodstuffs; and

    (h)  expenditures for goods imported under contracts
for the supply of commodities if such contracts were
awarded by direct contracting without competition.

3.   Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than
$1,500,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify.

4.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the
Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $12,500,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b)
that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (c)
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.

5.   If,  after the exchange of views described in
paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall have given notice to
the Borrower that the macro-economic policy framework of
the Borrower is not consistent with the objectives of the
Program or that the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program or actions  taken pursuant to Schedule 4 of
this Agreement are not satisfactory and, within 90 days
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                      SCHEDULE 2

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)

On each May 15 and November 15

     beginning November 15, 1995
     through   November 15, 2006        1,040,000

On May 15, 2007                         1,080,000

*    The figures  in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and
4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

    The following premiums are specified for the purposes
of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                                   The interest rate (ex-
                                   pressed as a percenta-
                                   ge per annum) applica-
                                   ble to the balance
                                   outstanding on the
                                   Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied
                                   by:

Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                   0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity

More than 15 years before                    1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 3

                      Procurement

1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:

    (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and

the following is substituted there for:

    "2.8 Notification and Advertising

         The international community should be notified
     in a timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This
     will be done by advertising invitations to apply
     for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list, to
     apply for prequalification, or to bid; such
     advertisements should be placed in at least one
     newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower’s
     country and, in addition, in at least one of the
     following forms:

     (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
           Development Business; or

     (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper,  periodical
           or technical journal of wide international
           circulation; or

     (iii) a notice to local representatives of
           countries and territories referred to in the
           Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of
           the goods required."

    (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph
2.21 of the Guidelines:

         "As a further alternative, bidding documents
     may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
     single currency widely used in international trade
     and specified in the bidding documents."

     (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted.

2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimAted to
cost the equivalent of less than $1.500.000 shall be
awarded

    (a)  by purchasers subject to the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on
the basis of limited international bidding under such
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been
found acceptable by the Bank; or

    (b)  by other purchasers, in accordance with
established commercial practice, provided that such
contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at
least two countries, except where direct contracting is
permitted under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

4.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Bank may reasonably request to support

withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3 and 4
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank
has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.

                      SCHEDULE 4

        Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (c)
            of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.   The Borrower shall have commenced implementing a
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for annual reduction
in tariffs for imports of agricultural and agroindustrial
products.

2.   (a)  The Borrower’s Agricultural Credit Bank shall
apply a credit policy whereby interest rates on the loans
it rediscounts will be adjusted quarterly and will be set
as follows:

     (i)   for Large and Medium Farmers, the rate shall
           be equal to the Average Treasury Bill Rate
           corresponding to the day prior to the first
           day of each quarter; and

     (ii)  for Small Farmers the rate shall be equal to
           the Average Treasury Bill Rate corresponding
           to the day prior to the first day of each
           quarter less seven percentage points.

     (b)  For purposes of this paragraph:

     (i)   "Large and Medium Farmers" means farmers with
           farms of an area exceeding 25 acres;

     (ii)  "Small Farmers" means farmers with farms of
           an area of 25 acres or less; and

     (iii) "Average Treasury Bill Rate" means the
           average yield of the Treasury Bills issued by
           the Borrower during the previous twelve
           months as published in the Statistical Digest
           of the Bank of Jamaica.

3.   The Borrower shall have submitted to its Parliament
draft legislation, satisfactory to the Banks reforming
the Borrower’s Cooperative Societies Act of 1950, so as
to enable credit unions to set freely their active and
passive interest rates.

4.   The Borrower shall have taken all necessary action,
including any legislative action required, to: (a) lift
all restrictions on individuals and private firms to
engage in the purchase, processing and exporting of cocoa
and cocoa products; (b) retain in its Cocoa Industry
Board, a function of quality control over the cocoa
output of private exporters; and (c) authorize that
membership of cocoa producers and processors in the
Borrower’s Cocoa Industry Board be voluntary and
discontinue any cess on nonmembers of such Cocoa Industry
Board.

5.   The Borrower shall have taken all necessary action,
including any legislative action required, to: (a) lift
all restrictions on private firms  and individuals  to
engage in the purchase, processing and exporting of
citrus and citrus products; and (b) simplify the
procedures for review of the Borrower’s marketing plans

set forth in the Borrower’s Agriculture Marketing Act of
1944.

6.   The Borrower’s total fiscal cost of its generalized
food subsidy program (as set forth in the Borrower’s
Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation’s operating plans)
projected for its Fiscal Year 1990 shall not exceed
J$130,000,000.

7.   The Borrower shall have made progress, satisfactory
to the Bank, in the implementation of its program of
titling of public lands relating to the 2000 titles to be
issued during 1989.

8.   The Borrower shall have made progress, satisfactory
to the Bank, in its program of divestment of public lands
relating to the 7000 acres to be sold during 1989.

9.   The Borrower shall have completed the negotiations
for divestitures  of at least five small agricultural
and agroindustrial enterprises with assets valued at less
than $2,000,000 equivalent each, and at least one
agricultural or agroindustrial enterprise with assets in
excess of that amount or, in each of the cases where
negotiations have not been completed, that alternative
actions, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been taken
to dispose of the assets of the applicable enterprise or
enterprises.

10.  The Borrower shall have completed a study,
satisfactory to the Bank, on the policies and regulatory
arrangements relating to the use of chemical pesticide
and based on the results of such study shall have
furnished to the Bank a plan of action, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the reduction in the use of chemical
pesticides in agricultural operations in the Borrower’s
territory.

