d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3246 IND

            (Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 15, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3246 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 15, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987
between Japan and the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the
Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by
Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported
by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter
agreement; and

      (C)   Japan intends to make available to the Borrower a grant
(the Japanese Grant) in amount of (cid:26)84,000,000, out of said funds to
assist the Borrower in carrying out a portion of the technical
assistance under Part C.1 of the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DKI Jakarta
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to
the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "BOGOR Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Kabupaten Bogor pursuant to
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the Bogor
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (d)   "Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Kabupaten
Tangerang pursuant to Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
Schedules to the Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "Bekasi Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Kabupaten Bekasi
pursuant to Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to
the Bekasi Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (f)   "Participating Local Government" and the acronym "PLG"
means each of the local governments of DKI Jakarta, Kabupaten Bogor,
Kabupaten Tangerang and Kabupaten Bekasi; and "Participating local
Governments" and the acronym "PLGs" means collectively the local
governments of DKI Jakarta, Kabupaten Bogor, Kabupaten Tangerang and
Kabupaten Bekasi;

      (g)   "Jabotabek" means the region comprising the PLGs
administrative areas;

      (h)   "DKI Jakarta" means Jakarta Special Capital Province;

      (i)   "Kampung" means an urban neighborhood;

      (j)   "Kelurahan" means a sub-district of about 30,000 to
50,000 people;

      (k)   "KIP" means the Borrower’s Kampung Improvement Program;

      (l)   "DTKTD" means the Directorate for Urban and Regional
Planning established within the Directorate General of Human
Settlements of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (m)   "JUPCO" means the Jabotabek Urban Project Coordination

Office, established within the Regional Development Planning
Board/BAPPEDA of DKI Jakarta;

      (n)   "BAPPEDA" means the DKI Jakarta Regional Development
Planning Board;

      (o)   "DKUDA" means the Directorate of Regional Finance
established within the Directorate General of Regional Autonomy and
Public Administration of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs;
and

      (p)   "DGHS" means the Directorate General of Human Settle-
ments in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-one million dollars  ($61,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the

                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Sec-
            tion 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
            interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
            rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out under the overall responsibility and supervision of DGHS: (i)
Part A of the Project through each PLG; (ii) Part B of the Project
through DKI Jakarta; (iii) in coordination with DKI Jakarta and West
Java Provincial Government, Part C of the Project through the Office
of its State Minister of Population and Environment and its Ministry
of Home Affairs; (iv) Part D of the Project through its Ministry of
Public Works/DTKTD and its Ministry of Home Affairs; (v) Part E of
the Project through its Ministry of Home Affairs/DKUDA in
coordination with the PLGs; and (vi) Part F of the Project through
JUPCO, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, environmental and financial practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required

for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) For purposes of carrying out Parts A, B and
C of the Project, the Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the
Loan, relend to DKI Jakarta an amount equivalent to $48,000,000
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and DKI Jakarta under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.

      (b)   For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend to Kabupaten
Bogor an amount equivalent to $2,400,000 under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Kabupaten
Bogor under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend to Kabupaten
Tangerang an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Kabupaten
Tangerang under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

      (d)   For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend to Kabupaten
Bekasi an amount equivalent to $2,400,000 under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Kabupaten
Bekasi under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Bogor Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Bekasi Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, Bogor Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Tangerang
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Bekasi Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any portion thereof.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower and each PLG responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

                  (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                        in paragraph (a) of this Section, including
                        those for the Special Account, for each
                        fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                        appropriate auditing principles
                        consistently applied, by independent
                        auditors acceptable to the Bank;

                 (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                        but in any case not later than six months
                        after the end of each such year, the report
                        of such audit by said auditors, of such
                        scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                        have reasonably requested; and

                (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                        concerning said records and accounts and
                        the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                        time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

                  (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                        accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                        Section, records and accounts reflecting
                        such expenditures;

                 (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                        Bank has received the audit report for the
                        fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                        from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                        Special Account was made, all records
                        (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                        receipts and other documents) evidencing
                        such expenditures;

                (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to
                        examine such records; and

                 (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                        included in the annual audit referred to in
                        paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                        report of such audit contains a separate
                        opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                        statements of expenditure submitted during
                        such fiscal year, together with the
                        procedures and internal controls involved
                        in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                        support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, that:

      (a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

                  (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or

                  (ii)  any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the

meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Bogor Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Tangerang Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Bekasi Subsidiary Loan Agreement, each has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the respective Participating
Local Government;

      (b)   that the Division in JUPCO referred to in paragraph 9 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall have been established and the
position of Division Manager, Financial Accountant, and Monitoring
Officer shall have been filled; and

      (c)   that a model of the Memorandum of Understanding referred
to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall have been
adopted by each PLG.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the DKI Jakarta Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DKI Jakarta and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and DKI Jakarta in accordance with
its terms;

      (b)   that the Bogor Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kabupaten Bogor and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Kabupaten Bogor in accordance
with its terms;

      (c)   that the Tangerang Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kabupaten Tangerang
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Kabupaten Tangerang in
accordance with its terms; and

      (d)   that the Bekasi Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kabupaten Bekasi and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Kabupaten Bekasi in accordance
with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY               44319 DEPKEU IA
                  Jakarta                   45799 DJMLN IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                               53%

      (a)   DKI Jakarta       21,600,000

      (b)   Kabupaten Bogor    1,100,000

      (c)   Kabupaten            900,000
            Tangerang

      (d)   Kabupaten Bekasi   1,100,000

(2)   Equipment (other                          100% of foreign
      than container                            expenditures;
      trucks):                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)   DKI Jakarta        3,900,000        (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
      (b)   Kabupaten Bogor      100,000        expenditures for
                                                other items
      (c)   Kabupaten            100,000        procured locally

            Tangerang

      (d)   Kabupaten Bekasi     100,000

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(3)   Trucks and               4,100,000        100% of foreign
      containers                                expenditures,
      for solid                                 100% of local
      waste manage-                             expenditures
      ment                                      (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(4)   Technical Assistance                      100%
      and Training:

      (a)  DKI Jakarta        11,400,000

      (b)  Kabupaten Bogor       800,000

      (c)  Kabupaten Tangerang   700,000

      (d)  Kabupaten Bekasi      800,000

      (e)  Ministry of           800,000
           Home Affairs

      (f)  Office of State     1,300,000
           Minister of
           Population and
           Environment

      (g)  Ministry of         3,000,000
           Public Works

(5)   Unallocated              9,200,000
                             ___________

            TOTAL             61,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000
equivalent, may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1,
1990; (b) under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (4) (b) until
Kabupaten Bogor shall have taken all action as shall be required to
implement staffing and organizational arrangements, and community
and social development aspects  satisfactory to the Bank; (c) under
Categories (1) (c), (2) (c) and (4) (c) until Kabupaten Tangerang
shall have taken all action as shall be required to implement
staffing and organizational arrangements, and community and social
development aspects  satisfactory to the Bank; and (d) under

Categories (1) (d), (2) (d) and (4) (d) until Kabupaten Bekasi shall
have taken all action as shall be necessary to implement staffing
and organizational arrangements, and community and social
development aspects  satisfactory to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(a) alleviating poverty in Jabotabek by upgrading the economic,
environmental and social conditions of low-income urban communities
through a community-based approach and private sector participation;
(b) strengthening pollution control and environmental protection in
Jabotabek; (c) improving infrastructure maintenance in Jabotabek;
and (d) improving development planning in Jabotabek.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof, as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon,
from time to time, to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Kampung Improvement Program

      Upgrading low-income Kampungs in approximately 75 Kelurahan in
DKI Jakarta and approximately 20 in Kabupaten Bogor, Kabupaten
Tangerang and Kabupaten Bekasi, by providing basic infrastructure,
including water supply, drainage, sanitation, primary collection of
household refuse, access roads and footpaths, community organi-
zation, social and economic development, health education and
services, training, and related technical assistance.

Part B:     Solid Waste Management

      Extending secondary collection of household refuse to the
upgraded kampungs in the selected kelurahans and eight additional
kelurahans in priority flood-prone areas including provision of
equipment thereof; cleaning up informal dump sites; and improving
resource recovery through waste materials separation programs,
including provision of technical assistance therefor, all of the
foregoing in DKI Jakarta.

Part C:     Environmental Protection and Pollution Control

1.    Strengthening the environmental and pollution control
capabilities of the relevant provincial agencies in DKI Jakarta and
West Java, with special emphasis for monitoring ambient water and
air quality and enforcement of controls on waste discharges,
including provision of technical assistance, training and equipment.

2.    Development of a natural resources inventory and preparation
of a pollution reduction strategy for Jabotabek.

3.    Feasibility studies to prepare environmentally-oriented
projects in areas of industrial joint waste treatment, high
polluting small-scale industries, and hazardous waste management in
Jabotabek.

Part D:     Urban Spatial Management and Monitoring

      Updating the  Jabotabek Metropolitan Development Plan;
establishing a development monitoring system for Jabotabek; updating
existing base maps for development planning, tax administration and
environmental management in each PLG (except DKI Jakarta); and
carrying out planning studies for urbanizing areas adjacent to DKI
Jakarta.

Part E:     Infrastructure Maintenance

      Improvement of operations and maintenance of infrastructure by
the PLGs by providing technical assistance thereto in the areas of
management, policy, institutions and finance.

Part F:

      Overall coordination of Project implementation, including
provision of technical assistance therefor.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      March 1, 1996                             1,110,000
      September 1, 1996                         1,155,000
      March 1, 1997                             1,200,000
      September 1, 1997                         1,245,000
      March 1, 1998                             1,295,000
      September 1, 1998                         1,345,000
      March 1, 1999                             1,395,000
      September 1, 1999                         1,450,000
      March 1, 2000                             1,505,000
      September 1, 2000                         1,565,000
      March 1, 2001                             1,625,000
      September 1, 2001                         1,685,000
      March 1, 2002                             1,755,000
      September 1, 2002                         1,820,000
      March 1, 2003                             1,890,000
      September 1, 2003                         1,965,000
      March 1, 2004                             2,040,000
      September 1, 2004                         2,120,000
      March 1, 2005                             2,200,000
      September 1, 2005                         2,285,000
      March 1, 2006                             2,375,000
      September 1, 2006                         2,470,000
      March 1, 2007                             2,565,000
      September 1, 2007                         2,660,000
      March 1, 2008                             2,765,000
      September 1, 2008                         2,875,000
      March 1, 2009                             2,985,000
      September 1, 2009                         3,100,000
      March 1, 2010                             3,220,000
      September 1, 2010                         3,335,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Bidders for works shall be
prequalified in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
provided, however, that contracts for civil works estimated to cost
$12,000 each or less and in the aggregate not to exceed the
equivalent of $4,300,000, may be carried out by contracts for labor
with residents of the Kelurahans selected for improvements under the
Project pursuant to selection guidelines approved by the Bank.

2.    Small items of equipment for solid waste management and office
equipment up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,900,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods procured in
accordance with international competitive bidding, and the first
five civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$75,000 each or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Provided, however, in
the procurement of trucks and containers for social waste management
the documentation to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this

paragraph shall also include proposed arrangements for the use of
such trucks and containers including leasing arrangements thereof.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contracts required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contracts.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall carry out an annual performance review of
the Project each year during October/November and shall invite the
Bank to participate in such reviews.

2.    The Borrower shall carry out, by December 1, 1990, an
environmental assessment of Part A of the Project, satisfactory to
the Bank, with a view to implement measures to mitigate adverse
environmental effects that such Part of the Project may cause, and
shall furnish to the Bank such assessment and proposed measures for
its review and comments.

3.    By September 30, 1992, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank, or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank, a
pollution control strategy and terms of reference for  special topic
studies under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project, and thereafter,
carry out such strategy and studies.

4.    The Borrower shall cause, or cause DKI Jakarta to make,
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the disposal of solid
waste, including the following:

      (a)   model contract with private contractors, including the
terms and conditions of equipment leasing; and

      (b)   monitoring the air and water quality in the area
surrounding the disposal site at Kabupaten Bekasi.

5.     The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the
staffing schedules and training programs with regard to the KIP in

DKI Jakarta, Kabupaten Bogor, Kabupaten Tangerang and Kabupaten
Bekasi in accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory to the
Bank.

6.    Prior to commencing works in any community, the Borrower and
each PLG shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
each beneficiary community consistent with a model MOU approved by
the Bank with respect to the implementation arrrangements for that
particular community.

7.    Within 10 years following Project completion, the Borrower
shall not undertake further major redevelopment efforts with regard
to the kampungs improved under the Project without prior
consultation with the Bank.

8.    The Borrower shall cause all its departments, agencies and
administrative subdivisions and all departments and agencies of the
PLGs, responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
to cooperate effectively with each other in the execution of the
Project, and shall second, or cause to be seconded, staff to the
project management units as required.

9.    The Borrower shall cause DKI Jakarta to establish in JUPCO a
Division responsible for the overall coordination of the Project,
headed by a qualified and experienced officer, and assigned, at all
times, with such staffing, resources, facilities and
responsibilities as shall be required to enable JUPCO to underake
the overall coordination of the Project.

10.   Each PLG shall issue decrees (SK) satisfactory to the Bank,
for the Kampung Improvement Program in their respective
jurisdictions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received satisfactory evidence to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for

                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the LoanAccount under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

