CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3167 POL

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                    Loan Agreement

      (Agroindustries Export Development Project)

                        between

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                          and

                NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND

                Dated February 22, 1990

                                      LOAN NUMBER 3167 POL

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

          AGREEMENT, dated February 22, 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND (the Borrower).

     WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Poland (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has     agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.

          Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:

     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (b) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and a
Participating Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

     (c)  "Subsidiary Finance" means any loan made by
the Borrower pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;

          (d)  "Participating Bank" means any banking
Institution with which the Borrower has entered into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

     (e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to
be made by a Participating Bank out of the proceeds of
a Subsidiary Finance to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project;

          (f)  "Investment Enterprise" means any
economic unit, duly established and operating under the
laws of the Guarantor, to which a Participating Bank
proposes to make or has made a Subloan,

     (g)  "Investment Project" means a development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

          (h)  "PAID" means the Borrower’s Project
Appraisal and Implementation Division to be maintained
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (c)
of this Agreement;

     (i)  "Act" means the National Bank of Poland’ 9
Act dated January 31, 1989, of the Guarantor’s Council
of State, pertaining to the establishment and
operations of the Borrower, as amended to the date of
this Agreement; and

     (j)  "Category" means any withdrawal category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement,  various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent  to  the
amount  of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The borrower shall, for the purposes of the
project, open and maintain on its books a special
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December
31, 1994, or such later date as the Bank shall
establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

          Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay
interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%).  On
each of the dates  specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
 the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund:  (A)  the Bank’s investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
               after July 1,  1989, bearing interest
               rates determined otherwise than as

               provided in paragraph (a) of this
               Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six 
               months or the second six months of
               a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no
less than six months’ notice to the Borrower,
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall
be amended to read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
          and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
          for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
          Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
          the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
          the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period,  calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest
          Period."

          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter,  the Bank shall notify the Borrower
     and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
     Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

          "(c)  (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a
     three-month period commencing on January 1,
     April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
     year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

       Execution of the Project; Management and
              Operations of the Borrower

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall: (i) carry out Part B of the Project and
take all action required on its part to cause and
enable the Participating Banks to carry out Part A of
the Project with due diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative,
financial and economic practices, and to perform their
obligations under their respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreements;  (ii) conduct its operations and affairs
under the Project in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and
staff; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.

     (b)  The Borrower shall make available to the
Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of
the loan referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement
under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be  entered

into between the  Borrower and each of the
Participating Banks, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
include,  without
Limitation, those set forth in said Schedule 6.

     (c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Financing Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise       agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements, or any provision
thereof.

     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) coordinate
and monitor the overall execution of the Project and
the carrying out by the Participating Banks of their
obligations under their respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank;

     (b) ensure that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and
consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment; and

     (c) in order to facilitate the carrying out of the
tasks referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, maintain PAID with staff, facilities and other
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.

     (b) The Borrower shall.

           (i) have its records and accounts referred
               to in paragraph (a) of this Section and
               the records and accounts for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
               available, but in any case not later
               than six months after the end of each
               such year,  (A) certified copies of the
               said accounts for such year as so
               audited and (B) the report of such audit
               by said auditors,  of such scope and in
               such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records
               and accounts as well as the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

       (i)     maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section,  records  and
               accounts  reflecting such expenditures;

      (ii)     retain, until at least one year after
               the Bank has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all records  (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills,  receipts and other
               documents)  evidencing such
               expenditures;

     (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

      (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in
               paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during
               such fiscal year, together with the
               procedures and internal controls involved in
               their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:

     (a)  open by the date on which it shall receive
the first payment of interest or other charges on, or
repayment of principal under, any of the Subsidiary
Financing Agreements and thereafter maintain a separate
account on its books in accordance with its normal
financial practices;

     (b) upon receipt of each such payment or
repayment, credit the same to the said separate
account. All amounts so credited shall be utilized by
the Borrower, to the extent they are not yet required
to meet the Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank
under this Agreement, exclusively to finance specific
development projects to expand exports.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the Act shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligatlons under this
Agreement.

     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as
an additional condition to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c)
of the General Conditions, namely, that at least one
Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and a Participating Bank.

      Section 6.02.  The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions,  to be  included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely, that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and
is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with
its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

                    INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)

     For the Borrower:

          National Bank of Poland
          Swietokrzyska 11/21
          00-950 Warsaw
          Republic of Poland

          Cable address:                 Telex:

               NARBANK                        814681 NBP PL
               Poland

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and
year first above written.

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By  /s/  Barber B. Conable
                                             President

               NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND

                  By /s/ W. Baka
                              Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

     1. The table below sets forth the Categories of
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed

(1)  Under Part A       75,000,000
     of the Project:

   (a) goods, tech-                     100% of foreign
       nical licenses,                  expenditures and
       consultants’                     100% of local
       services,                        expenditures
       training, and                    (ex-factory cost)
       export promo-                    for goods, and
       tion and                         100% for foreign
       marketing                        expenditures for
       activities                       technical licenses,
                                        consultants’ ser-
                                        vices, training and
                                        export promotlon
                                        and marketing
                                        activities

   (b) interest on                      Amounts capitalized
       the Sub-loan                     pursuant to para-
                                        graph 2 of the
                                        Annex to Schedule 6
                                        to this Agreement

 (2) Livestock feed    25,000,000       100% of foreign
     under Part B                       expenditures
     of the Project 

       TOTAL          100,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of
the Guarantor; and

   (b) the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the

Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

   (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals,  in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after August 1,
1989; and

   (b)  Category (2) on account of expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan made by a
Participating Bank except after the Bank shall have
communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence
that a Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed
on behalf of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower
and such Participating Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

   The objective of the Project is to assist in
financing such productive facilities and resources as
will contribute to the expansion of export
agroindustries.

       The Project consists of the following parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Bank and
the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to
achieve such objective:

Part A:

   The financing, through the provision of loans,
including Subloans, by the Participating Banks, of
specific development projects to: (i) improve the
management and operations and upgrade the product mix
and expand the export potential of agroindustrial
enterprises and to cover their requirements for
incremental working capital on account of increased
production and sales to be generated through such
projects; and (ii) improve the management and
operations and expand the  facilities of enterprises
specialized in providing technical, managerial, export
marketing and training services to agroindustrial
enterprises.

Part B:

   The carrying out of a program for the financing,
through the sale of foreign exchange by the Borrower,
of imports of livestock feed urgently needed for the
maintenance of an adequate supply of livestock suitable
for processing by agroindustries for export.

                      *    *    *

   The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1994.

                       SCHEDULE

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning August l, 1995
     through   August 1, 2006           4,165,000

On February 1, 2007                     4,205,000

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and
4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:

     Not more than three years               0.18
          before maturity

     More than three years but               0.35
          not more than six years
               before maturity

     More than six years but                 0.65
          not more than eleven years
          before maturity

     More than eleven years but not          0.88
          more than fifteen years
          before maturity

     More than fifteen years                 1.00
          before maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement ant Consultants’ Services

Section I Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections
I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBID

Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods
manufactured  ln the territory of the Guarantor may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   For goods to be financed under Category (1):

     (a)  Goods,  including technical licenses,  which
the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature or need to
be compatible with installed equipment and which are
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$1,000,000 in the aggregate, may be procured through
direct negotiations with the suppliers thereof,  on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

     (b)  Goods,  including technical licenses,
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $14,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

     (c)  Goods,  including technical licenses,  which
the Bank agrees are supplied through a limited number
of sources and which are estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $10,000,000 in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the basis  of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list
of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8,  2.9,  2.55 and 2.56
thereof).

2.   For livestock feed to be financed under Category
(2):

     (a)  Contracts  for  the procurement  of livestock
feed estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or
more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I; and II
of the Guidelines, subject to the following
modifications:

          (i)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is
               deleted and the following is substituted
               there for:

     "2.8 Notification and Advertising

     The international community should be notified in
a timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be
done by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion
in a bidder’s invitation list,  to apply for
prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements
should be placed in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in addition,

in al least one of the following forms:

     (A)  a notice in the United Nations publication,
          Development Business; or

     (B)  an advertisement in a newspaper,  periodical
          ortechnical journal  of  wide  international
          circulation; or

     (C)  a notice to local representatives of
          countries and territories referred to in the
          Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of
          the goods required."

     (ii) The following is added at the end of
          paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:

     "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and
specified in the bidding documents."

     (iii) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
           are deleted.

     (b) Livestock feed estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $5,000,000 per contract, may be procured
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of price
quotations obtained from more than one supplier, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

     1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed
awards and final contracts:

     (a) With respect to each contract estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.

     (b) With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 3  shall be furnished to the
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement

     2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

     Consultants’ services shall be procured under
contracts awarded to: (A) consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and
(B) who shall be selected in accordance with

principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means
Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the  Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the   Special
Account shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or  requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special
               Account,  the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the
               Bank shall specify.

         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each
               such request, the Borrower shall
               furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required
               pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment payments
               in respect of which replenishment
               is requested.  On  the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
               from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of

               the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as
the Bank shall reasonably request,  furnish to the Bank
such documents and other  evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter,  withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account  (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be

credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 6

         Principal Terms and Conditions of the
            Subsidiary Financing Agreements

     Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the principal terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Schedule shall apply for
the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.   Terms

1.   The principal amount of a Subsidiary Finance to be
made available by the Borrower to a Participating Bank
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement
shall be:

          (a) the equivalent in dollars (determined as
of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category  (l)  for
Investment Projects financed under Sub-loans made by
such Participating Bank under Part A of the Project;
and

          (b)  the  amount of interest payments on such
Sub-loans capitalized as provided ln paragraph 3 of
this Part.

2.   Each Subsidiary Finance shall be charged, on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, interest during each six-month period
commencing on January 1 and July 1 of each calendar
year at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, as shall
be calculated by the Borrower on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank.

3.   Interest payments  on the  Subsidiary Finance
shall be capitalized to the extent that interest
payments on Sub-loans made out of the proceeds of such
Subsidiary Finance are capitalized as provided in
paragraph 2 of the Annex to this Schedule.

4.   Each Subsidiary Finance shall be repaid in
accordance with an amortization schedule pursuant to
which each portion thereof utilized in the making of a
Sub-loan shall have a maturity calculated to conform to
the amortization schedule applicable to such Sub-loan.

5.   The right of each Participating Bank to the use of
the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Finance shall
be: (a) suspended upon failure by such Participating
Bank to perform any of its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financial Agreement; and (b)
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pur-
suant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous
period of 60 days.

B.   Conditions

1.   A Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be entered
into only with a banking institution, duly established

and operating under the laws of the Guarantor and
certified by the Borrower’s Bankings  Supervision
Department as in compliance with applicable banking
regulations, which the Borrower shall have determined
and the Bank shall have agreed, that such institution:

     (a)  is operating pursuant to a lending and
investment policy statement,  which the Bank and the
Borrower shall have judged acceptable;

     (b)  has  satisfactory  financial  policies  and
the organization, management, staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations and affairs, including the activities
proposed to be undertaken under the Project;

     (c)  has agreed to develop, on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower,
within a period not exceeding one year of the date of
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and
thereafter implement an action plan for the
strengthening of its:  (i) financial structure,
including the achievement and maintenance of a capital
to risk assets ratio of at least 8%, appropriate
aggregate limits on loans to a single borrower or a
group of financially associated borrowers and adequate
provisions  for potential  loan  losses;  and  (ii)
organization and functions, including in the appraisal,
financing and supervision of the carrying out of
development projects, and in foreign currency
operations, financial management and internal auditing
policies and procedures;

     (d)  has established a credit committee and a
technical unit in accordance with and for the purposes
set forth in paragraph 2 (d) of this Part; and

     (e)  has adopted suitable policies and procedures
for the auditing, in respect of fiscal year 1989 and of
each fiscal year thereafter, of its financial
statements in accordance with appropriate  auditing
principles  consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.

2. Each respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall
contain provisions pursuant to which each respective
Participating Bank shall undertake to:

     (a) carry out its activities under Part A of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in
accordance with appropriate financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and staff, and in
conformity with its lending and investment policy
statement referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Part B of
this Schedule, and provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose;

     (b) (i) make Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises
under Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;  (ii) exercise
its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such
manner as to protect its interest and interests of the
Bank and the  Borrower, comply with its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement and
achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project;  (iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its
agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision
thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower; and
(iv) appraise Investment Projects and supervise,
monitor and report on the carrying out by Investment

Enterprises of Investment Projects, including the
procurement of the goods and services there for, in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank and the Borrower;

     (c)  maintain, with staff, facilities and other
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower: (i) a credit committee to be
responsible for the provision of assistance and
advice to its management and all matters relating to
its lending activities, including the evaluation of
Sub-loan applications; and (ii) a technical unit to be
responsible for appraising and supervising the carrying
out of development projects, including the Investment
Projects;

    (d) (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to, the Bank or the Borrower, as may be
reasonably requested by the Bank or the Borrower, with
regard to the progress of its activities under Part A
of the Project, the performance of its  obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of Part A of
the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the
Borrower of any condition which Interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress  of its activities under
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and

     (e)  (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial conditions; (ii) have its
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited,  in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable  to the Bank;  (iii)
furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of
said financial statements and accounts  for such year
as so audited, (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the
Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)
furnish to the Bank or the Borrower such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof as
the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time
reasonably request.

                  ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6

            Principal Terms and Conditions
                   of the Sub-loans

     The principal terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Annex shall apply for the purposes
of paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Part B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

1. The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be: (a)
the equivalent in dollars (determined as of the date or
respective dates    of withdrawal from the Loan Account
or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on
account of the cost of goods and services for the
Investment Project to be carried out under such
Sub-loan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (l); and
(b) the amount of interest payments on such Sub-loan
capitalized as provided in paragraph 2 of this Annex.

2. Sub-loans shall each be made by the respective
Participating Bank for a period not exceeding 12 years,
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three
years, and on other terms, including those relating
to interest and other charges, which are in accordance
with the lending and investment policy statement of
such Participating Bank referred to in paragraph 1 (a)
of Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. Interest
payments on Sub-loans accrued and payable during the
execution of the Investment Projects financed
thereunder may be capitalized and paid out of the
proceeds of such Sub-loans in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.

3.  Sub-loans shall be made only:

     (a) to Investment Enterprises which each shall
have: (i) established, to the satisfaction of the
Participating Bank making the Sub-loan in accordance
with such Participating Bank’s applicable policies and
procedures, that (A) it has the management, staff and
other resources required for the efficient carrying out
of the Investment Project, (B) it is creditworthy and
that its projected internal cash generation or equity
increases and the provision of other financing obtained
by it shall be sufficient to enable it to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Investment Project and to contribute at least 10%
of the estimated aggregate cost thereof; (ii)
undertaken, whenever its respective Sub-loan shall be
other than a free-limit Sub-loan as defined in
paragraph 5 (b) of this  Schedule, to develop and
adopt, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower within a period not exceeding one
year of the date of the agreement providing for its
respective Sub-loan,  and thereafter maintain a
suitable cost accounting and management information
system; and

     (b)  for Investment Projects which are each:  (i)
determined to be technically and commercially feasible,
including on the basis, inter alia, of an assessment
of the availability of raw materials  for  its
efficient operation and markets for its products,
and designed with appropriate safety, health and
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) calculated (A) to be carried out within a
period not exceeding three years, to produce revenues
equivalent to not less than its operating expenses and
the aggregate amount of repayments of, and interest and
other charges on, all debt incurred for its carrying
out, and to generate within a maximum period of four
years of its carrying out net earnings in convertible
currencies (with the term ~convertible currencies"  for
the purposes herein meaning the currencies designated
as such by the Borrower on the basis of principles
satisfactory to the Bank) amounting in the aggregate at
least to the aggregate equivalent of its cost in such
currencies, and (B) to have a financial rate of return
and an economic rate of return of at least 18% each,
all as shall be determined and calculated by the
Participating Bank to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
on the basis of appraisals carried out in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

4.   No expenditures for goods or services required for
an Investment Project shall be eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:

     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by the Bank and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than

ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the application and information required
under paragraph 5 (a) of this Annex in respect of such
Sub-loan; or

     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project
shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the request and information
required under paragraph 5 (b) of this Annex in respect
of such free-limit Sub-loan.  For the purposes hereof,
a free-limit Sub-loan shall be. a Sub-loan to be made
by a Participating Bank under Part B of the Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $500,000
equivalent when added to any other amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, provided, however, that the said free-limit shall
not apply in respect of the first three such sub-loans
to be so made by each Participating Bank.

5.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Subloan)  to the Bank for approval, the
Participating Bank shall furnish to the Borrower for
forwarding to the Bank, an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise, a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and, an appraisal of
the Investment ProJect; (ii) the proposed terms and
condition of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization there for; and (ili) ouch other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

     (b)  Each request by the Participating Bank to be
furnished to the Borrower for forwarding to the Bank
for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of 8 free-limit Sub-loan shall
contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefore; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

6.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the
Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means,  rights adequate to protect such
Participating Bank’s interests and those of the Bank
and the Borrower, including the right to:

     (a)  require the Investment Enterprise to: (i)
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate safety, health and environmental
standards, satisfactory to the Bank, and sound
technical, financial and managerial standards; (ii)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
and other resources required for the purpose; and
(iii) maintain adequate records;

     (b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project;

     (c) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites,   works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;

     (d)  require that the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance,  against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice;

     (e)  require the Investment Enterprise to:  (i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial
conditions; (ii) have its financial statements (balance
sheets,  income statements and cash flow statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower; and (iii) furnish to the Participating Bank,
for forwarding to the Bank or the Borrower as the Bank
or the Borrower shall so request, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year certified copies of said financial
statements for such year as so audited and the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall have
reasonably requested;

     (f)  obtain all such information as the.Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to
the benefits to be derived from the Subproject; and

     (g)  suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the
Participating Bank.

