d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

CONFORMED COPY

                                            LOAN NUMBER 3166 POL

Loan Agreement

(Industrial Export Development Project)

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT

between

and

NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND

Dated February 22, 1990

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3166 POL

 LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated February 22, 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND (the Borrower).

     WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Poland (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake
such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement;

   NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:

     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

     (c)  Subsidiary Financing Agreements means any
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and a
Participating Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

          (d)  "Subsidiary Finance" means any loan made
by the Borrower pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;

          (e)  "Subsidiary Lending Agreement" means any
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
an Eligible Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

          (f)  "Eligible Bank" means a banking
institution with which the Borrower has entered into a
Subsidiary Lending Agreement;

          (g)  "Participating Bank" means a banking
institution with which the Borrower has entered into a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

          (h)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed
to be made by a Participating Bank out of the proceeds
of a Subsidiary Finance to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project;

          (i)  "Investment Enterprise" means any
economic unit, duly established and operating under the
laws of the Guarantor, to which a Participating Bank
proposes to make or has made a Subloan;

          (j)  "Investment Project" means a specific
development project to be carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

     (k)  "PAID"  means  the Borrower’s Project
Appraisal and Implementation Division to be maintained
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b)
(i) of this Agreement;

     (l)  "Act" means the National Bank of Poland’s Act
dated January 31, 1989 of the Guarantor’s Council of
State, pertaining to the establishment and of
operations of the Borrower, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;

          (m)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the
project preparation advance granted by the Bank to the
Guarantor pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
March 14, 1988, and June 28,  1988, between the
Guarantor and the Bank, and made available by the
Guarantor to the Borrower to assist the Borrower in the
financing of consultants’  services required for the
preparation of the Project and the initial carrying out
thereof; and

    (n)  "Category" means any withdrawal category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent  to  the
amount of two hundred sixty million dollars
($260,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

    Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or,  if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)  The Borrower shall,  for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain on its books a special
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

    (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and
to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance of the said Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.

    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1996, or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.

    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified

Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period,  calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

        (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage  per
               annum,  of  the  outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or
               portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
               investments;  and (B)  loans which may
               be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined
               otherwise than as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.

       (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar
               year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no
less than six months’ notice to the Borrower,
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall
be amended to read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
          and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
          for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
          Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
          the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
          the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest
          Period."

                    "(b)  As soon as practicable after
               the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall
               notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
               of  the  Cost  of Qualified Borrowings
               determined in respect of such Quarter."

                    "(c) (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a
               three-month period commencing on January
               1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
               calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each

year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                          ARTICLE III

            Execution of the Project; Management and
                  Operations of the Borrower

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall:  (i) carry out Part A of the Project and
take all action required on its part to cause Parts B,
C and D of the Project to be carried out by the
Guarantor, the Eligible Banks and the Participating
Banks with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative,
financial and economic practices,  and to enable the
Guarantor,  the Eligible Banks and the Participating
Banks to perform their obligations under their
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  the Subsidiary
Lending Agreements and the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose; and (iii) conduct its
operations and affairs under the Project in accordance
with sound financial standards and practices, with
qualified management and staff.

     (b)  For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Guarantor the equivalent in dollars (determined as of
the date or respective dates of withdraw Al from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of goods and services
under Part B of the Project and financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (2) under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor,
under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include, without
limitation, terms pursuant to which the Guarantor shall
undertake to:  (i) repay the principal amount so made
available over a period of 17 years, including a grace
period of five years; (ii) pay interest on such
principal amount, withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate equal at least to the rate of
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus an
additional charge equal at least to 1.5%.

     (c)  For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of
the loan referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement
under subsidiary financing agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of the
Participating   Banks, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved   by the Bank and which shall
include, without limitation, those set forth in said
Schedule 6.

     (d)  For the purpose of carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Eligible Banks the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement under

subsidiary lending agreements  to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Eligible Banks,
under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank and which shall include, without
limitation, those set forth in said Schedule 7.

     (e)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements and the Subsidiary Lending Agreements in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and
the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
any such Agreement, or any provision thereof.

     Section 3.02.  (a) The Borrower shall:  (i)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the
Project and the carrying out by the Guarantor, the
Participating Banks and the Eligible Banks of their
obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, Subsidiary Financing Agreements and
Subsidiary Lending Agreements in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) take all measures to ensure that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree: (A) the amount of any
Sub-loan or the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made
by one or more of the Participating Banks to any one
Investment Enterprise or for any one  Investment
Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000,
and (B) the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made by
the Participating Banks for less than the equivalent of
$100,000 each, shall not exceed the equivalent of
$10,000,000.

     (b)  In order to facilitate and assist the
Borrower in carrying out the tasks referred to in
paragraph (a)  of this Section,  the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain PAID with staff, facilities and other
resources and terms of reference;  and (ii) employ,  to
the extent required, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference,  all as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

          Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, the use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Part B of the
Project, shall be carried out by the Guarantor pursuant
to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have its records and accounts referred
               to in paragraph  (a)  of this Section
               and the records and accounts for the

               Special Account for each fiscal year
               audited,  in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
               available, but in any case not later
               than six months after the end of each
               such year,  (A) certified copies of the
               said accounts for such year as so
               audited and (B) the report of such audit
               by said auditors,  of such scope and in
               such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records
               and accounts as well as the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after
               the Bank has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all records  (contracts,  orders,
               invoices, bills,  receipts and other
               documents)  evidencing such
               expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives
               to examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts
               are included in the annual audit
               referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such
               audit contains a separate opinion by
               said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with
               the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be
               relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:

     (a)  open by the date on which it shall receive
the first payment of interest or other charges on, or
repayment of principal under,  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
and the Subsidiary Lending Agreements and thereafter
maintain a separate account on its books in accordance
with its normal financial practices;

     (b)  upon receipt of each such payment or
repayment, credit the same to the said separate
account. All amounts so credited shall be utilized by
the Borrower, to the extent they are not yet required
to meet the Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank
under this Agreement, exclusively to finance specific

development projects to expand exports.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the Act shall have been
amended,  suspended,  abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.

     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01.  The  following event is  specified
as an additional condition to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c)
of the General Conditions, namely, that at least one
Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and a Participating Bank.

    Section 6.02.  The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions,  to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank,
namely,  that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement
referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and
is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with
its terms.

    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this  Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     For the Borrower:

          National Bank of Poland
               Swietokrzyska 11/21
               00-950 Warsaw
               Republic of Poland

          Cable address:                     Telex:

          NARBANK                            814681 NBP
PL        Poland

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and
year first above written.

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Barber B. Conable
                                                           President

                         NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND

                         By /s/ W. Baka
                                           Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
 Category         Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(1)  Consultants’        500,000)
     services and               )
     training under             )
     Part A of the              )
     Project                    )
                                )
                                )
(2)  Goods, con-       4,000,000)       100% of foreign
     sultants’                  )       expenditures and
     services and               )       100% of local
     training under             )       expenditures (ex-
     Part B of the              )       factory cost) for
     Project                    )       goods, and 100%
                                )       of foreign expend-
                                )       tures for technical
(3)  Under Part C    245,000,000)       licenses, consul-
     of the Project:            )       tants’ services
                                )       and training
   (a) goods,                   )
       technical                )

       licenses,                )
       consultants’             )
       services and             )
       training                 )

   (b) interest on                      Amount capitalized
       the Sub-loans                    pursuant to
                                        paragraph 2 of the
                                        Annex to Schedule
                                        6 to this Agreement

(4) Goods, con-        2,000,000        100% of foreign
    sultants’                           expenditures and
    services and                        100% of local
    training under                      expenditures (ex-
    Part D of the                       factory cost) for
    Project                             goods, and 100% of
                                        foreign expend
                                        itures for consul-
                                        tants’ services
                                        and training  

(5) Refunding of       1,500,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepa-                      suant to Section
    ration Advance                      2.02 (c) of this
                                        Agreement

(6) Unallocated       7,000,000

        TOTAL       260,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of
the Guarantor; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals,  in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$25,000,000, may be made on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1989;

    (b)  Category (2) on account of expenditures by the
Guarantor except after the Bank shall have communicated
to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and the
Guarantor;

    (c)  Categories (3) on account of expenditures by
an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan made by a
Participating Bank except after the Bank shall have
communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence
that a Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed
on behalf of,  and is legally binding upon,  the
Borrower and such Participating Bank; and

    (d)  Category (4) on account of expenditures by an
Eligible Bank except after the Bank shall have
communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence
that a Subsidiary Lending Agreement has been executed
on behalf of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower
and such Eligible Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to: (1)
strengthen institutional capabilities to facilitate the
further development of the industrial sector;  and (2)
assist in financing such productive facilities and
resources as will contribute to the expansion of export
industries.

    The Project consists of the following parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Bank and
the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to
achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Carrying out by the Borrower of:

    (1)  a program of technical support to develop the
organization, policies and procedures of its Banking
Supervision Department;

    (2)  a training program to improve the skills of
its staff responsible for the coordination and
supervision of Project execution; and

    (3)  a training program to improve the skills of
the staff of banking institutions, including in the
technical, market, financial and economic analyses of
development projects.

Part B:

    Development and carrying out by the Guarantor of a
program of technical support and training to facilitate
the expansion of industrial exports, restructuring of
industry and development of the private sector,
including, inter alia:

    (1)  development of sound accounting and auditing
standards, and improvement of the skills of accountants
and auditors;

    (2)  carrying out of appropriate diagnostic
analyses and strategies for economic restructuring,
including (a) training and technical support for the
Guarantor’s relevant agencies in the areas of
restructuring and privatization,  and (b)  technical
support to develop an assistance scheme to
entrepreneurs to help them in the creation of small
business ventures; and

   (3)  carrying out of studies  to develop
appropriate strategies, including suitable policies and
procedures and regulatory framework,  for further
development of the industrial sector and for
facilitating the restructuring of selected sub sectors.

Part C:

    The financing, through the provision of loans,

including sub loans, by the Participating Banks, of
specific development projects to:  (1) improve the
management and operations, upgrade the product mix and
expand the export potential of industrial enterprises,
and to cover their requirements for incremental working
capital on account of increased production and sales
generated through such projects; and (2) improve the
management and operations  and expand the  facilities
of enterprises specializing in providing technical,
managerial,  export and training services to industrial
enterprises.

Part D:

    Development and carrying out by the Eligible Banks
of programs  to strengthen their organizations and
functions, including in the appraisal,  financing and
supervision of the carrying out of development
projects,  and in foreign currency operations,
financial management and internal auditing policies and
procedures.

                        *  *  *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1995.

                          SCHEDULE 3

                Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

     beginning August 1, 1995
          through August 1, 2006        10,835,000

On February 1, 2007                     10,795,000

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment             Premium

                              The  interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan
                              on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied
                              by:

Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but not                  0.65
     more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but                   0.88
     not more than fifteen
     years before maturity

More than fifteen years                      1.00
     before maturity

                     SCHEDULE 4

        Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections
I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits n published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods
manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Goods, including technical licenses, which the
Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature and which are
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$15,000,000 in the aggregate,  may be procured through
direct negotiations with the proprietors thereof, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   Goods, including technical licenses, estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $55,000,000,  may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

3.   Goods,  including technical licenses, which the
Bank agrees are supplied through a limited number of
sources and which are estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $35,000,000 in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list
of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed
awards and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each of the first four
contracts to be procured in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof,  each of the
first two contracts to be procured in accordance with
the procedures described in Part C.3 hereof and each
other  contract estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account,  such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account,  such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     Consultants’  services shall be procured under
contracts awarded to: (A) consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B)
who shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by world Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.

                     SCHEDULE 5

                   Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means
Categories  (1) through (4) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocations means an
amount equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special
               Account,  the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank requests for deposits  into
               the  Special Account at  such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and  other
               evidence  required  pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested.  On the
               basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Loan Account and
               deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown
               by said documents and other evidence to
               have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account,  the Borrower shall,  at such time as

the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account;

     (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account
(or,  if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures,  the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                     SCHEDULE 6

        Principal Terms and Conditions of the
           Subsidiary Financing Agreements

     Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the principal terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in this Schedule shall apply for
the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.

A.   Terms

1.   The principal amount of a Subsidiary Finance to be
made available by the Borrower to a Participating Bank
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement
shall be: (a) the equivalent in dollars (determined as
of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category (3) for
Investment Projects financed under Subloans made by
such Participating Bank under Part C of the Project;
and  (b)  the amount of interest payments on such
Sub-loans capitalized as provided in paragraph 3 of
this Part.

2.   Each Subsidiary Finance shall be charged, on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, interest, during each six-month period
commencing January 1 and July 1 of each calendar year,
at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, as shall be
calculated by the Borrower on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.

3.   Interest payments on the  Subsidiary Finance
shall be capitalized to the same extent that interest
payments on Subloans made out of the proceeds of such
Subsidiary Finance are capitalized as provided in
paragraph 2 of the Annex to this Schedule.

4.   Each Subsidiary Finance shall be repaid in
accordance with an amortization schedule pursuant to
which each portion thereof utilized in the making of a
Sub-loan shall have a maturity calculated to conform to
the amortization schedule applicable to such Sub-loan.

5.   The right of each Participating Bank to the use of
the proceeds  of its respective Subsidiary Finance
shall be:

(a) suspended upon failure by such Participating Bank
to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and (b) terminated if
such right shall have been suspended pursuant to
subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of 60
days.

B.   Conditions

1.   A Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be entered
into only with a banking institution, duly established
and operating under the laws of the Guarantor and
certified by the Borrower’s Banking Supervision
Department as in compliance with applicable banking
regulations, which the Borrower shall have determined
and the Bank shall have agreed, that such institution:

     (a)  is operating pursuant to a lending and
investment policy statement which the Bank and the
Borrower shall have judged acceptable;

     (b)  has  satisfactory financial policies and the
organization, management, staff and other resources

required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations and affairs, including the activities
proposed to be undertaken under Part C of the Project;

     (c)  has agreed to develop, on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower
within a period not exceeding one year of the date of
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and
thereafter implement an action plan for the
strengthening of its: (i) financial structure,
including the achievement and maintenance of a capital
to risk assets ratio of at least 8%, appropriate
aggregate limits on loans to a single borrower or a
group of financially associated borrowers and adequate
provisions  for potential  loan losses;  and  (ii)
organization and functions, including in the appraisal,
financing and supervision of the carrying out of
development projects, and in foreign currency
operations, financial management and internal auditing
policies and procedures;

     (d)  has established a credit committee and a
technical unit in accordance with and for the purposes
set forth in paragraph 2 (d) of this Part; and

     (e)  has adopted suitable policies and procedures
for the auditing, in respect of fiscal year 1989 and of
each fiscal year thereafter, of its financial
statements in accordance with    appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.

2.   Each respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement
shall contain provisions pursuant to which each
respective Participating Bank shall undertake to:

        (a) carry out its activities under Part C of
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in
accordance with appropriate financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and staff, and in
conformity with its lending and investment policy
statement referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Part B of
this Schedule, and provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose;

        (b) (i) make Sub-loans to Investment
Enterprises under Part C of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(ii) exercise its rights in relation to each such
Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interest and
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, comply with its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement and achieve the purposes of Part C of the
Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
of its agreements providing for Subloans, or any
provision thereof, without prior approval of the
Borrower; and ( iv) appraise Investment Projects and
supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by
Investment Enterprises of Investment Projects,
including the procurement of the goods and services
therefor, in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.

        (c) maintain, with staff, facilities and other
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower: (i) a credit committee to be
responsible for the provision of assistance and advice
to its management on all matters relating to its
lending activities, including the evaluation of
Sub-loan applications; and (ii) a technical unit to be
responsible for appraising and supervising the carrying

out of development projects, including the Investment
Projects.

        (d) (i) exchange views with, and furnish all
such information to, the Bank or the Borrower, as may
be reasonably requested by the Bank or the Borrower,
with regard to the progress of its activities under
Part C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of Part C of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the
Bank and the Borrower of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
activities under its respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement.

       (e) (i) maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial conditions; (ii)
have its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, (iii) furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified
copies of said financial statements and accounts for
such year as so audited, (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank
or the Borrower shall have reasonably requested, and
(iv) furnish to the Bank or the Borrower such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof as
the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time
reasonably request.

                 ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6

           Principal Terms and Conditions
                  of the Sub-loans

     The principal terms and conditions set forth or
referred to n this Annex shall apply for the purposes
of paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Part B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

1.   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be:
(a) the equivalent in dollars (determined as of the
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of goods and services
for the Investment Project to be carried out under such
Sub-loan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (3); and
(b) the amount of interest payments on such Sub-loan
capitalized as provided in paragraph 2 of this Annex.

2.   Sub-loans shall each be made by the respective
Participating Bank for a period not exceeding ten
years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three
years, and on other terms, including those relating to
interest and other charges, which are in accordance
with the lending and investment policy statement of
such Participating Bank referred to in paragraph 1 (a)
of Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement . Interest
payments on Sub-loans accrued and payable during the
execution of the Investment Projects financed
thereunder may be capitalized and paid out of the
proceeds of such Sub-loans in accordance with

guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.

3. Sub-loans shall be made only:

     (a) to Investment Enterprises which each shall
have: (i) established, to the satisfaction of the
Participating Bank making the Sub-loan in accordance
with such Participating Bank’ s applicable policies and
procedures, that it is creditworthy and that its
projected internal cash generation or equity increases
and the provision of other financing obtained by it
shall be sufficient to enable it to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Investment Project, (ii) undertaken to achieve and
maintain financial performance standards acceptable to
the Participating Bank on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, and (iii)
assigned and undertaken to maintain duly qualified and
experienced staff inadequate numbers to function as an
implementation team to be responsible for the carrying
out of the Investment Project; and

     (b) for Investment Projects which are each: (i)
determined to be technically feasible and designed With
appropriate safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) calculated: (A) to
be carried out within a period not exceeding three
years and to generate within a maximum period of four
years of its carrying out net earnings in convertible
currencies (with the term "convertible currencies " for
the purposes herein meaning the currencies designated
as such by the Borrower on the basis of principles
satisfactory to the Bank) amounting in the aggregate at
least to the aggregate equivalent of its cost in such
currencies, and (B) to have a financial rate of return
and an economic rate of return of at least 18% each,
all as shall be determined and calculated by the
Participating Bank to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
on the basis of appraisals carried out in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank .

4.   No expenditures for goods or services required for
an Investment Project shall be eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:

     (a) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph 5
(a) of this Annex in respect of such Sub-loan; or

     (b) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the request and information required
under paragraph 5 (b) of this Annex in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan.  For the purposes hereof, a
free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan to be made by
a Participating Bank under Part C of the Project in an
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
which shall not exceed the sum of $1,000,000 equivalent
when added to any other amounts financed or proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, provided,
however, that the said free-limit shall not apply in
respect of the first three such subloans to be so made
by each Participating Bank.

5.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub loan) to the Bank for approval, the

Participating Bank shall furnish to the Borrower for
forwarding to the Bank, an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise, a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and, an appraisal of the
Investment Project; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization there for; and (iii) such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request.

     (b) Each request by the Participating Bank to be
furnished to the Borrower for forwarding to the Bank
for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall
contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefore, and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

6.  Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the
Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect such
Participating Bank’s interests and those of the Bank
and the Borrower, including the right to:

     (a) require the Investment Enterprise to: (i)
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate safety, health and environmental standards,
satisfactory to the Bank, and sound technical,
financial and managerial standards; (ii) provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, and other
resources required for the purpose, and (iii) maintain
adequate records;

     (b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement and (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project;

     (c) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;

     (d) require that the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice;

     (e) require the Investment Enterprise to: (i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial
conditions; (ii) have its financial statements (balance
sheets, income statements and cash flow statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower; (iii) furnish to the Participating Bank, for
forwarding to the Bank or the Borrower as the Bank or
the Borrower shall so request, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end

of each such year certified copies of said financial
statements for such year as so audited and the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall have
reasonably requested;

     (f) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project;
and

     (g) suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the
Participating Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 7

           Principal Terms and Conditions
        of the Subsidiary Lending Agreements

    Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the principal terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Schedule shall apply for the
purposes of Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.

A.   Terms

1.   The principal amount to be made available by the
Borrower to an Eligible Bank under its respective
Subsidiary Lending Agreement shall be the equivalent in
dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates
of withdrawals from the Loan Account or payment out of
the Special Account)  of the value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the
cost of the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (4) for such Eligible Bank under Part D of the
Project.

2.   Each Eligible Bank shall undertake to:  (a) repay
the principal amount made available to it pursuant to
paragraph 1 hereof over a period of 17 years, including
a grace period of five years; and (b) pay on such
principal amount, withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time,  interest equal to the rate of interest
applicable from time to time to the Subsidiary Finance
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

B.   Conditions

1.   A Subsidiary Lending Agreement shall be entered
into only with a banking institution, duly established
and operating under the  laws  of  the Guarantor,
which  the Borrower shall have determined and the Bank
shall have agreed, that such institution has developed,
on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and
the Borrower,  a program for  the  strengthening of its
organization and functions proposed to be undertaken
under Part D of the Project.

2.   Each respective Subsidiary Lending Agreement shall
contain provisions pursuant to which each respective
Eligible Bank shall undertake to:

     (a) carry out its activities under Part D of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in

accordance with sound financial standards and
appropriate practices, with qualified management and
staff, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose;

     (b)  in order to assist it in the carrying out of
its program referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part:
(i) employ consultants with  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  of  reference satisfactory to
the Bank,  and (ii) procure such consultants’ services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use such services
exclusively in the carrying out of its activities under
Part D of the Project;

     (c)  (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to, the Bank or the Borrower, as may be
reasonably requested by the Bank or the Borrower, with
regard to the progress of its activities under Part D
of the Project,  the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Lending Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of Part D of the
Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the
Borrower of any condition which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of its activities under
its respective Subsidiary Lending Agreement.

     (d)  (i) maintain records and account adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial conditions; (ii) have its
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited,  in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,  (iii)
furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of said financial statements and accounts for such year
as so audited, (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the
Borrower shall have reasonably requested, and (iv)
furnish to the Bank or the Borrower such other
information concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit thereof as
the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time
reasonably request.

