d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3070 YU

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

   (Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project)

                        between

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                          and

    DO RIZANSKI VODOVOD KOPER - RIZANA WATER WORKS

                Dated February 1, 1990

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1990 between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and DO RIZANSKI VODOVOD KOPER (RIZANA WATER
WORKS) (the Borrower).

WHEREAS (A) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be
carried out by the Borrower;

     (C)  Part E of the Project will be carried out by
Opcina -Koper (the Municipality of Koper), Opcina - Izola
(the Municipality of Izola), and Opcina - Piran (the
Municipality of Piran) (individually,  Municipality,  and
collectively, Municipalities) pursuant to agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and the
Municipalities;

     (D)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.

Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective

meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Area" means the area serviced by the
Borrower;

     (b)  "Borrower’s Statutes" means the Borrower’s
self-management agreement and statutes dated June 7, 1984
pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and
is operating, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

     (c)  "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba
Drustvenog Knjigovodstva referred to in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Guarantor’s Constitution;

     (d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (e)  "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the
Borrower starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts
A, B, C and D of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December
31, 1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of such later date.

     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the

Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such
Semester.

     (c)  For purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.

         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.

        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with each
Municipality pursuant to which each such Municipality
shall carry out its respective part of Part E of the
Project.

     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

       Management and Operations of the Borrower

Section 4.01.  The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

     Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and engineering practices.

     Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.

                       ARTICLE V

             Financial and Other Covenants

     Section 5.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) and the records and accounts
               for the Special Account for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by the Social
               Accounting Service or another competent
               and experienced independent auditing
               organization acceptable to the Bank;

         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as possible,
               but in any case not later than eight
               months after the end of each such year,
               (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited
               and (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records,
               accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

        (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal

               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 5.02.  Without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, not later than March 15 and September 15
of each year, furnish to the Bank a report, prepared in
a format satisfactory to the Bank, on the financial
performance of the Borrower during the preceding calendar
semester.

     Section 5.03.  The Borrower shall:  (a) not later
than December 31, 1990, carry out, on the basis of terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a study of its
tariff structure;

     (b)  not later than March 31, 1991, consult with the
Bank on the findings and recommendations of such study;
and

     (c)  promptly thereafter, take all measures
necessary to obtain the approval of the agreed
recommendations of such study and put into effect a
revised tariff structure.

     Section 5.04.  (a) Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain, for each of
its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December
31, 1988, a ratio of total operating expenses to total
operating revenues not higher than eighty percent (80%).

     (b)  Before March 15 in each of its fiscal years,
the Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, ascertain
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

     (c)  If any review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in
order to meet such requirements.

     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  The term "total operating expenses" means
               all expenses related to operations,
               including administration, adequate
               maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu
               of taxes, and provision for depreciation
               on a straight-line basis at a rate of not
               less than 2.5% per annum of the average
               current gross value of the Borrower’s
               fixed assets in operation, or other basis
               acceptable to the Bank, excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.

         (ii)  The term "total operating revenues" means
               revenues from all sources related to
               operations.

        (iii)  The average current gross value of the
               Borrower’s fixed assets in operation
               shall be calculated as one half of the
               sum of the gross value of the Borrower’s
               fixed assets in operation at the
               beginning and at the end of the fiscal

               year, as valued from time to time in
               accordance with sound and consistently
               maintained methods of valuation
               satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 5.05.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall exclude from its investment
program for any fiscal year capital expenditures
(excluding the expenditures for the Project) that would
cause its average annual expenditures from 1989 to the
fiscal year in question to exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000.

     Section 5.06.  The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1994, carry out an action plan, on the basis
of a format and schedule satisfactory to the Bank,  for
reducing the level of unaccounted-for water.

     Section 5.07.  Without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall, not later than March 15 and September 15
of each year, furnish to the Bank a report, prepared in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, on progress in
implementation of the Project during the preceding
calendar semester.

                      ARTICLE VI

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  Any of the Municipalities shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the agreements
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

     (b)  The Borrowers Statutes and any law of the
Guarantor pertaining to the operations of the Borrower
shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the operations or
financial condition of the Borrower or the ability of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligation under this
Agreement.

     c)  The Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for
the suspension of its operations.

     Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely, the events specified in paragraphs (b)
and (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VII

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 7.01.  The following event is specified as
an additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely,  that the agreements between
the Borrower and the Municipalities referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been executed  on
behalf of the Borrower and the Municipalities.

     Section 7.02.  The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12. 02

(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that the agreements referred to in Section 7.01 of this
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Municipalities and are legally binding
upon the Borrower and the Municipalities in accordance
with their terms.

     Section 7.03.  The date one hundred twenty (120)
days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                     ARTICLE VIII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 8.01.  The General Manager of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 8.02.  The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Bank

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address                 Telex

          INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
          Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                            64145 (WUI)

     For the Borrower

          DO Rizanski Vodovod Koper
          Ulica 15. Maja 13, p.o.b. 154
          66000 Koper
          Yugoslavia

                                        Telex

                                          32454

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By  /s/  E. Lari

                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                    DO RIZANSKI VODOVOD KOPER
                    (RIZANA WATER WORKS)

                    By /s/  J. Kulisic

                              Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                         Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated              % of
                         (Expressed in            Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)  Works                    11,000,000          100% of foreign
     (except for                                  expenditures and
     Part E of                                    30% of local
     the Project)                                 expenditures

(2)  Goods                    16,000,000          100% of foreign
     (except for                                  expenditures,
     Part E of                                    100% of local
     the Project)                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost)
                                                  and 85% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items pro-
                                                  cured locally

(3)  Consultants’              2,000,000          100% of foreign
     services,                                    expenditures and
     training and                                 50% of local
     Project-                                     expenditures
     related foreign
     travel (except
     for Part E
     of the Project)

(4)  Unallocated              3,000,000

     TOTAL                   32,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor;

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Guarantor is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and

     (c)  the term "Project-related foreign travel" means
travel undertaken by the staff of the Borrower to visit
works of a similar nature to the Project and to inspect
equipment for the Project during manufacture.

3    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made

for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be made in
respect of Category (1), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1988.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are as follows:  (i)
to eliminate existing water shortages in the Project
Area; (ii) to provide additional water supply capacity
needed for expansion of the tourism industry and growth
in domestic and industrial/commercial demand in the
Project Area; (iii) to reduce unaccounted-for water in
the Rizana Water Works distribution network; (iv) to
protect existing water sources and coastal tourist areas
from pollution; and (v) to increase efficiency in the
delivery of water supply and sewerage services in the
Project Area.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Bank and the
Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:  Water Supply and Treatment

(1)  Construction of source works to increase the
     available water supply at Rizana from 300 1/sec to
     about 650 1/sec.

(2)  Expansion of the Rizana water treatment plant from
     200 1/sec to about 800 1/sec with provision of
     expansion in the future to about 2,600 1/sec.

(3)  Planning and investigations for the development of
     future water sources.

Part B:  Water Transmission and Storage

(1)  Construction of a raw water pipeline from the
     Rizana source works to the Rizana water treatment
     plant.

(2)  Construction of a treated water pipeline from the
     Rizana water treatment plant to Koper, including
     modifications to the Pobegi pump station.

(3)  Construction of a treated water pipeline from Koper
     to Izola, including construction of a tunnel and
     the St. Mark’s Hill pumping station.

(4)  Construction of distribution storage totalling
     about 15,000 m3.

(5)  Provision and installation of equipment for a
     supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
     system.

Part C:  Water Distribution

(1)  Rehabilitation and replacement of networks in the
     old town centers of Koper, Izola and Piran.

(2)  Improvement of pumping station control systems.

(3)  Establishment of waste control districts.

Part D:  Institutional Strengthening of the Borrower

(1)  Provision of technical assistance for the reduction
     of unaccounted-for water.

(2)  Carrying out a study of the Borrower’s tariff
     structure.

(3)  Provision of operation and maintenance equipment,
     including instrumentation for water loss control.

(4)  Provision of training courses and materials for the
     training of personnel.

Part E:  Sewerage

(1)  In the Municipality of Piran, construction of a
     pumping station and forcemain for connecting the
     old town of Piran sewerage network to the Piran
     sewage treatment plant.

(2)  In the Municipality of Izola:  (a) construction of
     a relief sewer in the old town of Izola connecting
     the new town area with the main sewage pumping
     station; and (b) rehabilitation and expansion of
     the main sewage pumping station in the old town of
     Izola.

(3)  In the Municipality of Koper:  (a) upgrading and
     expansion of the Koper sewage treatment plant from
     a preliminary treatment plant to a primary
     treatment plant with a population equivalent
     capacity of about 100,000; (b) construction of a
     sea outfall for the disposal of treated sewage from
     the Koper sewage treatment plant; and (c)
     construction of a collector sewer from the Iplas
     and Lama factories to the main sewerage network.

                         *    *    *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

     beginning November 15, 1994
     through May 15, 2004               1,600,000

*    The figure in this column represents dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                                   The interest rate

                                   expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
             the
                                   day of prepayment,
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                         0.20
     before maturity

More than three years but                         0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                           0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                    0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity

More than thirteen years before                   1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be
required to register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for
submitting bids.  In the event that registration shall be
required after a foreign contractor or supplier has been
notified that he will be awarded a contract, the
respective Borrower shall facilitate the registration.

3.   Each contract for goods and works shall include a
provision that the respective Borrower shall take all
measures necessary on its part to enable contractors and
suppliers to import equipment and materials and
specialized manpower as required to carry out their
services.

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers
from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to

the Bank.

2.   Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$1,500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure a conformed copy of the contract
together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall
be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance

with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B, C
and D of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit ln the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that nay payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, return to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.(cid:26)

