d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3193 POL

                    Loan Agreement

             (Transport Project - General)

                        between

                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                  Dated June 11, 1990

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
POLAND (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Railways Transport Loan
Agreement) of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Polish State Railway (PKP), the Bank has agreed to make
a loan (the Railways Transport Loan) to PKP to assist in
the financing of a project (the Transport Project -
Railways) further to improve management and operations of
the railways sub sector on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Railways Transport Loan Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement.

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "MTME" means the Borrower’s Ministry of
Transport and Maritime Economy, or any successor thereto;

     (b)  "GDDP" means MTME’s General Directorate of
Public Roads, or any successor thereto; and

     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of eight million dollars ($8,000,000) being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in the National Bank of Poland on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December
31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Periods means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,

               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund:  (A) the Bank’s investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
               after July 1, 1989, bearing interest
               rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this
               Section.

        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
          each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the
          preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest Period.

               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
          end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
          Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter.

               "(c) (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month
          period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
          1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

     Section 2.08.  The President of the National Bank of
Poland or such other person or persons as said President
shall designate in writing, are designated as
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative and
financial practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purposes.

     Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall establish and
maintain, with membership and resources and under terms

of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a coordinating
unit which shall be chaired by a senior staff member of
MTME and whose membership shall include a designated
representative of the National Bank of Poland, to be
responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring
of the execution of the Project and to assist PKP in the
coordination and monitoring of the execution of the
Railways Transport Project and the preparation of reports
and other information relating thereto.

     Section 3.03.  In order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, as
needed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.

     Section 3.04.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

             Financial and Other Covenants

     Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and

        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records and
               accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably
               request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,

               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

        (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall:

     (a)  ensure that each of the studies under Part B
(2) of the Project shall be carried out on the basis of
guidelines, terms of reference and a time schedule
satisfactory to the Bank and a copy thereof furnished to
the Bank promptly upon its completion, but in any case
not later than December 31, 1991, in respect of the study
under paragraph (a), and December 31, 1992, in respect of
the studies under paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of said
Part B (2);

     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
review with the Borrower the conclusions and
recommendations thereof; and

     (c)  initiate the implementation, within a period
not exceeding three months of its review pursuant to
paragraph (b) hereof, and thereafter implement the
strategy, plan or program developed thereunder, taking
into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.

     Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall:

     (a)  ensure that:  (i) at least 20% of the aggregate
value of all investments proposed to be carried out in
the transport sector through budgetary allocations by the
Borrower shall be allocated and applied towards the
carrying out of investments determined each to be
economically viable on the basis of an economic analysis
carried out in accordance with a methodology satisfactory
to the Bank; and (ii) such percentage shall be increased
by at least 15% for each subsequent fiscal year so as to
ensure that at least 80% of the investments proposed to
be carried out under its said Program for fiscal year
1995 shall be so determined; and

     (b)  review with the Bank, not later than 60 days
before the end of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal
year 1991, the Borrower’s proposed investments in the
transport sector for the following fiscal year and,
thereafter, take the Bank’s views into consideration in
finalizing said Program.

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section  5.01.  The following events are specified
as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Railways Transport Loan Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and

     (b)  the coordinating unit referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement has been established in accordance
with the provisions of said Section.

     Section 5.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Transport and Maritime
Economy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Transport and Maritime
            Economy
          ul. Chalubinskiego 4
          00-928 Warsaw
          Republic of Poland

                                        Telex:

                                          816651

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                    REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                    By  /s/  F. Wieladok

                              Authorized Representative

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By  /s/  W.A. Wapenhaus

                                Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                     Amount of the
                    Loan Allocated                % of
                     (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category     Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Goods                2,600,000          100% of
foreign
                                         expenditures and
                                         100% of local
                                         expenditures
                                         (ex-factory
cost)

(2)   Consultants’         4,020,000          100% of
foreign
      services and                       expenditures
      training

(3)   Unallocated          1,380,000

           TOTAL                8,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist in the
carrying out of programs further to improve the
management and increase the economic, financial and
operational efficiencies of the transport sector.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

(1)  Carrying out through GDDP of an action plan for the

development and application of a suitable road pavement
management system, including the provision of equipment,
technical support and staff training.

(2)  Provision of equipment and staff training to improve
GDDP’s quality control of production and laying of road
pavements.

Part B:

(1)  Provision of technical support, staff training and
studies to strengthen institutional capabilities to
facilitate the restructuring of the transport sector.

(2)  Provision of studies through MTME to develop
appropriate strategies and plans for the further
development of the transport sector, including those
relating to:  (a) the development and application of a
restructured rail passenger subsidy system based
exclusively on demonstrable social, economic and
environmental considerations; (b) the development and
application of a suitable road user charges system; (c)
the further development of road transport; and (d) the
expansion of combined transports.

                    *    *    *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in
dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

     beginning January 15, 1996
     through January 15, 2007                335,000

On   July 15, 2007                           295,000

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                                   The interest rate (ex-
                                   pressed as a percentage
                                   per annum) applicable to
                                   the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment, multiplied by:

Not more than three years                          .18
     before maturity

More than three years but not                      .35
     more than six years before
     maturity

More than six years but not                        .65
     more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                     .88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years                           1.00
     before maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as
the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will

not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 5

         Procurement and Consultants Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:  Procurement procedures

1.   Goods, other than those referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Part, shall be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).

2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least two countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

3.   Goods which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary
nature and which are estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $600,000 in the aggregate, may be procured
through direct negotiations with the proprietors thereof,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.

Part B:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     With respect to each contract for goods, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     Consultants’ services shall be procured under
contracts awarded to:  (A) consultants whose

qualifications, experience and terms and conditions shall
be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.

