d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3153 TR

                    Loan Agreement

            (Technical Assistance Project)

                        between

            REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated January 25, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3153 TR

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1990, between REPUBLIC
OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to

Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
l, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (b)  "MOP AM" means the Borrower’s Ministry of
Planning and Mobilization;

     (c)  "RSU" means the Restructuring Support Unit
established within the MOPAM;

     (d)  "SSU" means the Social Sectors Unit,
established within

     (e)  "SOE" means state-owned enterprise which is
established under the laws of the Borrower and which is
wholly-owned or majority-owned by the Borrower;

     (f)  "SOE Divestment and Rationalization Programs
means the program to restructure, sell, transfer,
liquidate, merge, lease or otherwise dispose of, wholly
or partially, selected SOEs provided by the Borrower to
the Bank on September 29, 1989;

     (g)  "SOEU" means the State-owned Enterprises Unit,
established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance by
Cabinet decision, on November 16, 1989 to assist in the
carrying out of the SOE Divestment and Rationalization
Program;

     (h)  "TTEC" means the Trinidad and Tobago
Electricity Commission of the Borrower, established by an
Act of Parliament of the Borrower on January 1, 1946;

     (i)  "PSIP" means the Public Sector Investment
Program of the Borrower; and

     (j)  "Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement" means
the agreement of same date herewith between the Borrower
and the Bank for Loan 3152-TR.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of four million dollars ($4,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the

proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1994 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  Fort the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month
                period ending on the date immediately
                preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.

         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                cost, as reasonably determined by the
                Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
                after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this
                Section.

        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar
                year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

                "(a)     The Borrower shall pay interest
          on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
          and outstanding from time to time, at a rate

          for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
          Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
          the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (l/2 of lo). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                "(b)     As soon as practicable after
          the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify
          the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."

                "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
          period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
          l or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out,
or cause to be carried out, Parts A and B of the Project
through RSU and SSU, respectively, and with the
assistance of its other ministries, departments and
agencies, in accordance with terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate management,
administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall cause each of RSU
and SSU:

     (a)  to submit quarterly reports to the Bank on the
progress of Project implementation beginning on March 31,
1990; and

     (b)  to submit annual evaluation reports on the
Project to the Bank no later than January 31 of each year
for the preceding calendar year.

     Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause each of RSU
and SSU to carry on their operations and conduct their
affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in

adequate numbers.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)   have the records and accounts referred
                to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                including those for the Special Account
                for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the
                Bank;

         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as
                available, but in any case not later
                than six months after the end of each
                such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and

        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other
                information concerning said records and
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                Section, records and accounts reflecting
                such expenditures;

         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after
                the Bank has received the audit report
                for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other
                documents) evidencing such expenditures;

        (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to
                examine such records; and

          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts
                are included in the annual audit
                referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                Section and that the report of such
                audit contains a separate opinion by
                said auditors as to whether the
                statements of expenditure submitted
                during such fiscal year, together with
                the procedures and internal controls
                involved in their preparation, can be

                relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  that the RSU and the SSU shall have been
adequately staffed with their directors appointed and
functioning and that the RSU and the SSU are fully
operational;

     (b)  that a management consulting firm shall have
been appointed to assist the Borrower in selecting and
employing consultants for the purpose of carrying out the
Project; and

     (c)  that all the conditions for the effectiveness
of the Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement shall have
been met.

     Section 5.02   The date April 25, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01   The Minister responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02   The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Permanent Secretary
          Ministry of Finance
          Port-of-Spain
          Trinidad

                                        Telex

                                        22450

     The Bank

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street,  N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America

     Cable address:                Telex

          INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

               By /s/ Selby Wilson
                    Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Ping Cheung Loh
               Acting Vice President Regional Vice President
               Latin America and the Caribbean

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                   Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated       % of
                   (Expressed in   Expenditures
     Category    Dollar Equivalent to be Financed

(1)  Consultants’    2,300,000      100%
     services,
     training
     and studies
     under Part A
     of the Project

(2)  Goods under       430,000      100% offoreign
     Part A of the                  expenditures and
     Project                        100% of local
                                    expenditures
                                    (ex-factory
                                    cost) and 100%
                                    of local ex-
                                    penditures for
                                    other items
                                    procured
                                    locally

(3)  Consultants’      800,000      100%
     services,
     training and
     studies under
     Part B of the
     Project

(4)  Goods under       100,000      100% of foreign
     Part B of the                  expenditures and
     Project                        100% of local
                                    expenditures
                                    (ex-factory
                                    cost) and 100%
                                    of local ex-
                                    penditures for
                                    other items
                                    procured
                                    locally

(5)  Unallocated       370,000

          TOTAL      4,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after November l, 1989.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower:

     (a)  in the implementation of its medium term
adjustment program; (b) in the strengthening of social
sector policies and programs, including the design and
preparation of programs to alleviate the social costs of
adjustment; and (c) in .he preparation of related
adjustment programs and other operations.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Economic Restructuring Program

1.   Assisting RSU in coordinating and implementing the
Borrower’s medium-term adjustment program, including
preparation of related operations.

2.   Assisting SOEU in: (a) implementing the SOE
Divestment and Rationalization Program through the
services of, inter alia, auditors, financial analysts,
valuators, lawyers and investment experts; and (b)
carrying out studies for the purpose of preparing related
SOE and private sector development operations.

3.   Carrying out a management and operational audit of
TTEC and assisting in the preparation and implementation
of an action plan to improve: (a) financial
self-sufficiency and management; (b) administrative
efficiency; (c) operational efficiency; (d) the system of
investment programming; and (e) rate-making capacity.

4.   Training of selected staff of TTEC including field
visits overseas.

5.   Strengthening the investment project preparation
capability of MOPAM within the context of the PSlP and
assisting in preparing projects well linked to sector
strategies.

6.   Carrying out studies for the purpose of preparing
trade and finance and industrial restructuring
operations.

7.   Assisting in the preparation of plans of action to
carry out trade reforms by, inter alia, carrying out the
following:

     (a)  a study of the Borrower’s trade and related
policies, including of the impact on domestic industries
of removing licensing requirements for imports and of the
practical significance of existing exemptions from import
charges on the Borrower’s competitiveness in regional
markets;

     (b)  a study to estimate the direct and indirect
content of indirect taxes in domestic exports and to
assess the need to introduce a system of indirect tax
rebate for exporters and formulate such a system, if
warranted;

     (c)  implementing a system for strengthening the
administration of the Borrower’s trade regime, including
anti dumping arrangements; and

     (d)  training of personnel and acquisition and
utilization of equipment to support the implementation of
an improved system of customs administration.

8.   Carrying out a review of relevant petroleum
legislation and regulations affecting the concessionary
and other system of contracts, royalty payments, and
petroleum taxation to assess the Borrower’s
competitiveness for encouraging increased private sector
investment in the petroleum industry and making
recommendations for improvement, where necessary.

9.   Acquisition and utilization of office equipment,
including computers and software for purposes of this
part of the Project.

10.  Carrying out additional studies, training, technical
assistance and equipment acquisition and utilization,
acceptable to the Bank, as may be required to foster the
objectives of the Project.

Part B:   Social Sector Program

1.   Assisting SSU to support the Borrower’s efforts to
strengthen social policies and programs, and to mitigate
the social costs of the medium-term adjustment program.

2.   Carrying out the following activities:

     (a)  review public expenditures on the social
sectors to improve the targeting and effectiveness of

existing social services and the provision of a desirable
minimum level of services, especially to the poor and
vulnerable groups;

     (b)  prepare an operation to strengthen, inter alia,
the employment prospects of unemployed youth,
particularly in concert with small business development
and youth insertion programs;

     (c)  formulate a system to generate information to
assist the Borrower in assessing programs designed to
protect the poor and vulnerable groups on an ongoing
basis;

     (d)  develop a framework including a financing plan,
for further development of the social security system;
and

     (e)  prepare action plans and initiate actions
taking into account the results of the aforementioned.

3.   Acquisition and utilization of office equipment,
including computers and software for purposes of this
part of the Project.

4.   Carrying out additional studies, training, technical
assistance and equipment acquisition and utilization,
acceptable to the Bank, as may be required to foster the
objectives of the Project.

                   *    *    *    *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1993.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due                             Payment of Principal
                                             (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

     beginning on May 15, 1995
     and ending on November 15, 2004          200,000

     *  The figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as of the respective dates of
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and
4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the

percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment               Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years              0.20
     before maturity

More than three years but              0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not         0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity

More than thirteen years               1.00
     before maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
more per contract, but less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract may  be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$20,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least two suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for computer
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more each.

Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract awarded under
Part A above and, the first two contracts and each
subsequent contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more awarded under Part B (l) above, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix l
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts
shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii)
of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement:

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: n .1

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  for replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
               request. the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures. All such deposits
               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall
               have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the

Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

