d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3057 TU

                          Loan Agreement

                         (Health Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 16, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3057 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 16 1990, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;

      (b)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, established
within MOH;

      (c)   "PCC" means the Project Coordination Committee referred
to in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Project Area" means the provinces of Ankara,
Diyarbakir, Istanbul, Mardin, Mugla, Sivas, Tokat and Yozgat;

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated December 2, 1987 and December 18, 1987
between the Borrower and the Bank; and

      (g)   "Committees" means the Fellowship Selection Committee,
the Management Information System Steering Committee and the
Training Advisory Committee, referred to in Part A.2 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million
dollars ($75,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the

principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.

      (c)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
                  mencing on each date specified in Section 2.06 of
                  this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
                  which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage
                  per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, engineering, administrative and public health practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants, services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing

                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bankâ€™s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, support
                  the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik
            Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
            Mustesarligi
            Bakanliklar, Ankara

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  HAZINE, Ankara           821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or

                                           821-42689 (ANK-TR)

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                  By /s/ F. Selekler
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works                      9,000,000        18%

(2) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
    vehicles:                                   expenditures
                                                100% of local
    (a)  equipment            43,000,000        expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
    (b)  vehicles              9,000,000        cost) and 50%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3) Consultantâ€™s               5,400,000        100%
    services and

    overseas fellow-
    ships

(4) Local training,            3,000,000        80%
    including books
    and materials

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Refunding of                 600,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(6) Unallocated                5,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                75,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve access to
basic health services in the Project Area; (ii) to introduce mea-
sures to improve efficiency in the delivery of health services and
the management of the health sector; and (iii) to strengthen the
technical and managerial capabilities of MOH.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Provincial Health Services

      The reorganization and strengthening of the basic health
services in the Project Area through:

      (1)   the upgrading of about 620 health posts, 280 rural
health centers, 140 urban health centers, 30 district hospitals, 8
provincial hospitals, 8 health colleges, and training centers;

      (2)   the construction of about 100 health posts, 14 rural
health centers, 69 urban health centers, 8 district hospitals, 2
public health laboratories, 2 vehicle maintenance workshops, 6
health colleges and 2 training centers;

      (3)   the provision of equipment, furniture and vehicles for
the health service facilities and of books and training materials
for the health training colleges, referred to in paragraphs (1) and
(2) above; and

      (4)   the carrying out of in-service training programs to

upgrade the skills of personnel, provide induction training for
staff assigned to the Project Area and increase community awareness
of health related matters.

Part B:     Institutional Development

      Strengthening of the health sectorâ€™s institutions and
increasing the efficient use of its resources through:

      (1)   the implementation of a manpower development program,
including: (a) the revision, with the assistance of experts, of
teacher training programs and the upgrading and equipping of the
Gevher Nesibe Institute for Teacher Training; (b) the revision or
design, with the assistance of experts, of curricula for nurses,
midwives and technicians and the carrying out of programs for
continuing education and short-term specialized courses; (c) the
provision of local training and of overseas training fellowships for
public health staff; and (d) the acquisition of textbooks, and
reference manuals and copyrights for health colleges, and the
translation and printing of health training and education materials;

      (2)   the establishment of a management information system,
comprising a statistical data base system, a hospital administration
system, an equipment and vehicles control system, a financial
management system, a personnel system, a PHC management system, an
epidemiology system and a MCH-FP system; and

      (3)   the implementation of a program to strengthen the capa-
cities of health central institutions, including: (a) overseas
fellowships and study tours and the provision of technical services
to strengthen MOHâ€™s capacity in management, planning, monitoring and
supervision; (b) studies and applied research, to be carried out
with the assistance of experts; and (c) technical assistance to the
PCU in technical matters related to Project execution.

                              *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

      beginning November 15, 1994
      through May 15, 2006                3,125,000

