d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3183 UNI

                          Loan Agreement

              (National Seed and Quarantine Project)

                              between

                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 21, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3183 UNI

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1990, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "NSS" means the National Seed Service of the Borrower;

      (b)   "PQS" means the Plant Quarantine Service of the
Borrower;

      (c)   "PMMC" means the Project Management and Monitoring
Committee mentioned in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "FDARD" means the Federal Department of Agriculture and
Rural Development;

      (e)   "FMST" means the Federal Ministry of Science and
Technology;

      (f)   "ADPs" means the managements of Agricultural Development
Projects in Nigeria, being Projects for which the Bank has provided
or is providing financing;

      (g)   "Research Institutes" means the Research Institutes
mentioned in paragraph 5 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and

      (h)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000) as the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a commercial bank two Special Accounts, one for
NSS (the NSS Special Account) and the other for PQS (the PQS Special
Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the
date immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      (e)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the
first Semester of 1989 shall be seven and sixty-five hundredths
percent (7.65%).

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August I in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial and scientific practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) provide in its annual budgets
amounts sufficient to cover its contributions to Project costs; (ii)
cause NSS and PQS to open and maintain at a commercial bank accounts
(the Project Accounts) to be used exclusively for Project
expenditures; (iii) pay into each of the Project Accounts initial
amounts (representing 50% of the Borrower’s contribution to the

first year’s Project costs); and (iv) thereafter pay into the
Project Accounts (not later than the quarter in which the Loan
Agreement becomes effective) the Borrower’s quarterly contributions
to Project costs. The Borrower and the Bank presently estimate the
said contributions to amount to $6,600,000 over the Project period.

      (c)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a
Project Management and Monitoring Committee (PMMC). PMMC shall
include the following members: (i) the Director, FDARD (Chairman);
(ii) the Deputy Director of NSS; (iii) the Deputy Director of PQS;
(iv) the Head of the Federal Agriculture Coordinating Unit (FACU);
(v) the Director of Agriculture Sciences Research, FMST; (vi)
representatives of the Research Institutes nominated in twos by FMST
in rotation; (vii) one representative of the ADPs selected in
rotation; and (viii) one representative of the private sector
nominated by the Seed Industry and Growers Association. PMMC shall
monitor Project execution, review disbursement of Project funds, and
review the employment and quality of work of technical assistance
consultants.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NSS and PQS to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices their respective operations and financial
conditions.

      (b)   The Borrower shall cause NSS and PQS each to:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for its Special Account for
                  each fiscal year audited in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause NSS and PQS each to:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                          Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause NSS and PQS each:

      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;

      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and scientific
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and

      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
scientific practices.

      Section 5.02. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the actions set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   PQS has: (i) carried out a review of its staffing level;
(ii) prepared job descriptions for its staff; and (iii) prepared a
staff development plan for the training to BSc degree or equivalent
level of at least 50% of PQS’s professional staff in positions of
GL8 and above within five years of the Effective Date;

      (b)   the Project Accounts have been opened and the initial
amounts paid in;

      (c)   NSS has introduced seed certification fees to cover at
least 25% of its direct operational costs;

      (d)   the Borrower has authorized NSS to open two accounts
into which shall be paid: (i) proceeds from seed certification fees;
and (ii) revenues from breeder and foundation seed sales;

      (e)   the Borrower has authorized PQS to open an account into
which shall be paid proceeds from fees and charges levied by PQS in
respect of its operations;

      (f)   NSS has introduced the first stage of foundation seed
prices to cover seed procurement prices paid to contract growers and
the costs to NSS of processing such seed;

      (g)   NSS has: (i) obtained commitments from at least three

major seed producing States of the Borrower to recover the first
stage of certified seed costs, including the following: (A) seed
procurement prices paid by the ADPs of such States to contract
growers; and (B) the costs to the said ADPs of processing certified
seed; and (ii) jointly with the ADPs of other seed producing States
of the Borrower, prepared an action plan to recover the costs
mentioned above as incurred by such ADPS.

      Section 6.02. The date (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
                  and Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
            Lagos, Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FEDMINFIN                     21248 (ITT)
                  Lagos

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
                                                 82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil Works                1,000,000        100% of foreign
    (excluding works                            expenditures and
    for second stage                            90% of local
    upgrading of PQS)                           expenditures

(2) Vehicles,                  5,000,000        100% of foreign
    machinery                                   expenditures and
    and equipment                               90% of local
    (excluding items                            expenditures
    for second stage
    upgrading of PQS)

(3) Technical                  1,700,000        100%
    assistance

(4) Training                   2,300,000        100%

(5) Seed research                600,000        100%

(6) Incremental                  200,000        100%
    working
    capitals

(7) Reserve                      300,000        100% of local
    seed stock                                  expenditures

(8) Upgrading of               1,600,000        100% of foreign
    PQS (Second                                 expenditures for
    Stage)                                      goods and 90% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures for works

(9) Unallocated                1,300,000

         TOTAL                14,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   expenditures under Category (5) unless NSS and the
National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) have signed an
agreement with a suitably qualified institution for the development
of rapid seed yam multiplication techniques; and

      (c)   expenditures under Category (8) for the second stage
upgrading of PQS unless PQS has: (i) entered into arrangements with
suitably qualified organizations for the testing and screening of
certain categories of imported materials for diseases, pests and
weeds which are subject to PQS standards and monitoring
requirements; and (ii) furnished to the Bank the results of a review
(carried out with the assistance of consultants employed pursuant to
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) of the performance of
the first set of pre-entry inspection stations and export
certification units included in Part B (1) (iii) of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in increasing
agricultural production and farm incomes through: (i) helping
institutions to achieve cost effective and timely production and
distribution of good quality seed of selected varieties; (ii)
development of a national strategy for (A) effecting changes in the
roles and responsibilities of public institutions and agencies
concerned with the seed sub-sector, (B) commercializing the
operations of the said institutions and agencies and preparing them
for possible future privatization, (C) accelerating development of
seed sub-sector programs, (D) pricing of seed, (E) improving the
effectiveness of seed certification, and (F) improving seed quality
control operations; (iii) strengthening the private seed sub-sector;
and (iv) strengthening the Borrower’s Plant Quarantine Service
(PQS).

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Seed Sub-Sector

(1)   Program to rationalize the roles and responsibilities of
public sector seed agencies and to develop an appropriate policy
framework for greater private sector participation in the seed sub-
sector including:

            (i)   Establishment of a National Seed Council (NSC) to
                  guide overall development of the seed industry.

            (ii)  Modification of the responsibilities and
                  organizational structure of the Borrower’s
                  National Seed Service (NSS) including (A)
                  coordination of breeder and foundation seed
                  production by NSS’s Seed Production Section, (B)
                  production by the end of the third year of the
                  Project of all foundation seed under contract
                  arrangements with private seed growers, (C)
                  establishment for the Seed Production Section of
                  a revolving fund to ensure its financial
                  autonomy, (D) establishment in NSS of a Seed
                  Industry and Skill Development Section to assist
                  NSS in the development and promotion of the seed
                  industry in general and the private seed sector
                  in particular, (E) strengthening of the NSS’s
                  Seed Certification and Quality Control Section in
                  order to ensure purity and quality of traded
                  seed, (F) reorganization of NSS’s Administration
                  and Personnel Management into a separate section,
                  and (G) construction for NSS of additional office
                  space, renovation of some NSS offices and
                  purchase for NSS of furniture and equipment.

            (iii) Program to assist private sector development of
                  the seed sub-sector including (A) phased adoption
                  by public sector seed agencies of a pricing
                  policy aimed at full cost recovery of foundation
                  and certified seed and the removal of any
                  constraints in the way of private seed sector
                  enterprises to set their own prices, (B) direct
                  participation by the private sector in the
                  formulation by the NSC of seed policies, (C) the
                  granting to private sector enterprises of access
                  to breeder seed, (D) adoption of clear policies
                  for allocating to private sector enterprises
                  without independent research capability
                  foundation seed of publicly bred varieties needed
                  for the establishment of seed enterprises, (E)
                  assisting private sector seed enterprises with
                  the importation of breeding materials for use in
                  the development of their own seed varieties, (F)
                  assisting private sector enterprises with advice
                  on the management of small to medium scale seed
                  enterprises, the engineering aspects of con-
                  struction and operation of seed processing plants
                  and seed storage facilities, and the development
                  of internal seed quality assurance programs, and
                  (G) assisting in the establishment of up to ten
                  smallscale seed enterprises with a capacity to
                  produce about 150 to 250 tons per annum of good
                  quality seed including purchase by NSS and sale
                  by NSS to private sector enterprises at full cost
                  of limited quantities of equipment needed for the
                  establishment of the said enterprises.

            (iv)  Seed industry development program including (A)
                  assisting institutions participating in the
                  Project with advice on seed industry development,
                  financial management, quality control and
                  certification, processing and storage
                  requirements, (B) survey of seed demand and
                  studies of seed legislation and human resource
                  development, and (C) seed industry workshops and
                  other specific studies relating to the
                  development of the seed industry;

            (v)   Preparation and review by NSC of a seed sub-
                  sector development plan which will (A) make
                  provisions for a national workshop for private
                  and public seed sector agencies (including seed
                  companies, potential local and overseas investors
                  in the seed industry and financing agencies), (B)
                  highlight areas for private sector participation,
                  and (C) make provisions for a second workshop to
                  review progress in the seed sub-sector and to
                  develop an action program to overcome any
                  constraints to the development of the seed sub-
                  sector.

            (vi)  Updating by NSC of the seed subsector development
                  plan mentioned above on the basis of recommenda-
                  tions resulting from the said workshops.

(2)   Program of seed variety testing, registration and release
including:

            (i)   Strengthening with the help of the National Co-
                  ordinated Research Programs (NCRP) and related
                  staff of the National Accelerated Food Production
                  Program (NAFP) assigned to NSS of the variety
                  testing mechanism and purchase of (A) vehicles
                  for use by project coordinators and scientists in
                  the course of variety testing, and (B) essential
                  equipment for the variety testing programs.

            (ii)  Assessment by farmers of new seed varieties
                  before official release of seeds to the public.

            (iii) On-farm trials to be planned and coordinated by
                  NSS’s Seed Industry and Skill Development Section
                  and carried out by on-farm adaptive research
                  teams of the ADPS.

            (iv)   Registration and release of new varieties with
                  the help of the National Variety Registration and
                  Release Committee (NVRRC) and the Genetic
                  Resources Unit of the Federal Ministry of Science
                  and Technology.

            (v)   Program of applied seed technology research to be
                  carried out with the help of the National
                  Agricultural Research System including the
                  National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI)
                  acting in collaboration with an institution of
                  international repute including (A) development of
                  a rapid multiplication technique for seed yam
                  using biotechnology, (B) purchase for the program
                  of laboratory equipment and supplies, and (C)
                  assisting the Seed Yam Growers Association of
                  Nigeria to improve the quality and quantity of
                  seed yam grown by farmers including the purchase
                  for the purpose by NRCRI of a vehicle.

(3)   Program of seed production, processing and storage including:

            (i)   Purchase of farm machinery, laboratory equipment
                  and vehicles by NSS for the five Research Insti-
                  tutes to improve breeder seed production facili-
                  ties; coordination by NSS of breeder and
                  foundation seed requirements of different
                  varieties for various locations; and applying the
                  certification process to breeder and foundation
                  seed to safeguard quality.

            (ii)  Certified and other commercial seed production
                  program including (A) organization by the ADPs
                  and the FASCOMs of certified seed production
                  through contract growers, and (B) production of
                  hybrid maize seed by private seed enterprises.

            (iii) Seed processing and storage program including (A)
                  purchase by NSS for the five Research Institutes
                  of facilities to process and store under
                  controlled conditions small lots of breeder seed
                  of different crop varieties, (B) purchase for NSS
                  of specialized equipment for rehabilitation and
                  upgrading of existing seed processing facilities
                  including establishment of drying facilities,
                  receiving facilities for seed from contract
                  growers, seed elevators, cleaners, and assorted
                  spare parts for processing plants, tools and
                  generators, (C) provision by NSS of technical
                  advice to the ADPs and private seed enterprises
                  on processing plant operations and training in
                  plant maintenance, (D) upgrading of facilities at
                  NSS’s regional locations, and (E) a study to
                  identify appropriate storage designs for
                  different agro-climatic zones including a review
                  of storage pest and disease control practices.

(4)   Strengthening seed certification and quality control activi-
ties including (A) establishment and carrying out of procedures and
mechanisms for ensuring quality of breeder, foundation and certified
seed, (B) assignment of suitably qualified staff in adequate numbers
to seed quality control and certification operations, (C) purchase
of vehicles to facilitate field inspections and visits, (D)
upgrading of existing seed testing laboratories at Ibadan and

Samaru, (E) establishment of three new such laboratories at Jos,
Umudike and Ilorin, and (F) providing finance for operational
deficits arising from certification and quality control activities.

(5)   Human resource development program including (A) local and
overseas training for NSS staff and persons selected from public and
private agencies, (B) upgrading of training facilities, (C) purchase
of essential training equipment, and (D) skill enhancement of
teaching staff to establish training and seed technology research
facilities at one or two universities.

(6)   Provision of additional working capital to ensure timely
procurement of seed from contract growers and maintenance of reserve
stocks of breeder and foundation seed.

Part B:     Plant Quarantine Service

(1)   Strengthening the ability of the Plant Quarantine Service
(PQS) to provide efficient services including:

            (i)   Establishment of a Plant Quarantine Consultative
                  Committee to assist PQS on policy matters
                  including (A) review of current quarantine
                  legislation, (B) resource allocation to different
                  activities, and (C) educating the public about
                  plant quarantine concerns and risks to Nigerian
                  agriculture.

            (ii)  Establishment of a Plant Quarantine Technical
                  Advisory Committee to (A) advise the head of PQS
                  and through him the Borrower on the biological
                  risks of unprecedented events, (B) be
                  responsible for emergency response to exotic
                  pests or disease incursions, and (C) provide new
                  information on plant pest and disease
                  occurrences.

            (iii) Streamlining major functions of PQS and
                  reorientating PQS’s work program to concentrate
                  its resources in areas likely to yield the
                  greatest benefits including (A) organizing PQS’s
                  existing divisions into three services, namely,
                  a Headquarters Support Services (HDSS), a Post-
                  entry Technical and Diagnostic Support Services
                  (PETDS), a Port Inspectorate Services (PTIS),
                  (B) establishing a computer based management
                  information system for HDSS and upgrading its
                  office equipment, (C) rehabilitation and
                  upgrading of existing facilities of PETD and
                  purchase for it of essential equipment and sup-
                  plies, (D) establishment for PTIS of pre-entry
                  inspection stations and export certification
                  units and provision and/or upgrading, as
                  necessary, of PTIS’s office, laboratory, staff
                  housing facilities, equipment and supplies
                  including installation of radio communication
                  equipment and telex machines, and (E) assisting
                  PTIS to reintroduce a quarantine declaration
                  form for incoming passengers.

(2)   Training program for PQS staff including: (A) training of
program managers, technical specialists and inspectors in inspec-
tion of imports and exports for pests, diseases and weeds;
pesticide application and safety; technical aspects of quarantine
operations; and (B) overseas training for technical experts,
visits by senior management staff to quarantine services in other
countries, training in risk assessment techniques, and studies on
recent advances in plant quarantine techniques.

                              *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

August 1, 1995                                  255,000
February 1, 1996                                265,000
August 1, 1996                                  275,000
February 1, 1997                                285,000
August 1, 1997                                  295,000
February 1, 1998                                310,000
August 1, 1998                                  320,000
February 1, 1999                                335,000
August 1, 1999                                  345,000
February 1, 2000                                360,000
August 1, 2000                                  375,000
February 1, 2001                                385,000
August 1, 2001                                  400,000
February 1, 2002                                420,000
August 1, 2002                                  435,000
February 1, 2003                                450,000
August 1, 2003                                  470,000
February 1, 2004                                485,000
August 1, 2004                                  505,000
February 1, 2005                                525,000
August 1, 2005                                  545,000
February 1, 2006                                565,000
August 1, 2006                                  590,000
February 1, 2007                                610,000
August 1, 2007                                  635,000
February 1, 2008                                660,000
August 1, 2008                                  685,000
February 1, 2009                                710,000
August 1, 2009                                  740,000
February 1, 2010                                765,000

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                 0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                 0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                   0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                 1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods estimated to cost
$500,000 or more equivalent shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods estimated to cost $60,000 or more equivalent but less
than $500,000 equivalent (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,000,000 equivalent) and all works may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent (up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent) may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furn-
ished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has

authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                         Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amountequivalent to: (i) 
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the NSS Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule; and (ii) $100,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the PQS Special Account pursuant
to said paragraph 3 (a).

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request,
                  the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower

                  shall have requested and as shall have been
                  shown by said documents and other evidence to
                  have been made out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
                  be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
                  under the respective eligible Categories, and in
                  the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
                  been justified by said documents and other
                  evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures; or

      (c)   if payment of any counterpart contribution to be made
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
shall be due and outstanding.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon.notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with

the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                Actions Referred to in Section 5.02

1.    NSS shall by December 31, 1992: (i) ensure that all founda-
tion seed shall be produced under contract with private seed
growers; and (ii) phase out and cease to operate all seed farms
owned by it.

2.    NSS shall by January 31, 1993, carry out a study into the
feasibility of establishing a fully autonomous seed production
operation with private sector participation.

3.    (a)   NSS shall provide private sector breeders and seed
growers with access to breeder and foundation seed of publicly
bred varieties.

      (b)   Subject to national phytosanitary and seed
import/export regulations, the Borrower shall allow such breeders
and seed growers to import seed for use in development of new
varieties and/or for seed production.

4.    NSS shall: (i) before starting its program of assistance to
small-scale seed enterprises, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its approval (A) criteria for selecting the small-scale seed
enterprises eligible for such assistance, and (B) details of NSS’s
plans for payment by the selected enterprises of the full cost of
equipment received by them under the program; and (ii) use
payments received from the enterprises for such equipment to
promote the seed industry.

5.    NSS shall, for the purposes of the variety testing and
breeder seed production activities under the Project, by September
30, 1990, enter into agreements with the following institutes: (i)
the Institute for Agriculture Research, Samaru, Zaria; (ii) the
National Cereals Research Institute, Badeggi; (iii) the Institute
for Agricultural Research and Training, Ibadan; (iv) the Root
Crops Research Institute, Umudike; and (v) the Lake Chad Research
Institute, Maiduguri. The said agreements shall set out the
obligations and responsibilities of NSS, the Institutes and all
participants in the said breeder seed production activities.

6.    The Borrower shall ensure that the seed certification
service of NSS is: (i) during the first three years of the Project
given financial and operational autonomy; and (ii) by September
30, 1993, duly established as an autonomous service.

7.    NSS shall enter into agreements with selected universities
which set out the training and seed technology facilities to be
provided, and the training and research programs to be undertaken
by the universities concerned.

8.    NSS shall: (i) maintain a separate revolving fund account;
and (ii) exclusively use the said account to provide working
capital required to finance reserve stock of breeder and founda-
tion seed.

9.    (a)   NSS and PQS shall each prepare annually: (A) budgets
and work programs; (B) a procurement program for the next
following year; and (C) quarterly reports and management accounts.
The budgets and work programs shall show project activities by
cost centers and provide a basis for a proper management
information system. The procurement program shall set out detailed
information on quantities, sources of funds, timing and
procurement methods by expenditure categories. The quarterly
reports and management accounts shall show projected and actual
expenditures and revenues to date. The management accounts shall
include information on sources and use of funds and on processing
plant capacity utilization and revenues from contractual services,

if any.

      (b)   NSS and PQS shall each furnish to: (i) the Bank the
annual budgets and work and procurement programs; and (ii) the
Bank and the Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development the quarterly reports and management accounts.

      (c)   NSS shall provide a secretariat for PMMC.

10.   The Borrower shall cause to be carried out two separate mid-
term reviews of the Project. The first such review shall take
place during the second year of the Project and the second such
review during the third year of the Project. NSS and PQS shall:
(i) prepare with the help of the Agricultural Projects Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit a Project Completion Report; and (ii) send the
said Report to the Bank within six months after the Closing Date.

11.   The Borrower shall by September 30, 1990: (i) establish the
National Seed Council (NSC) mentioned in Part A (1) (i) of the
Project; and (ii) inform the Bank of NSC’s establishment.

12.   NSS shall ensure that arrangements for seed variety testing,
registration and release shall be put into effect by May 31, 1990.

13.   NSS shall by December 31, 1990: (i) prepare revised job
descriptions for its staff positions; (ii) appropriately regrade
the jobs in relation to skill requirements; and (iii) ensure
adequate reassignment of staff to its various sections.

14.   FDARD shall, in consultation with PQS, by July 31, 1990: (i)
establish the Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee and the
Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee mentioned in Part B
(1) (i) and (ii) of the Project; and (ii) confirm to the Bank the
membership and functions of the said Committees.

15.   NSS and PQS shall each by December 31, 1990, in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
employ all consultants and other technical assistance staff needed
to strengthen NSS and PQS.

16.   (a)   NSS shall introduce the second and third stages of a
pricing policy for foundation seed which shall require prices of
such seed to be increased: (i) by December 31, 1991, to recover
all transportation, storage, overhead and depreciation costs over
and above the first phase price increases; and (ii) by December
31, 1992, to add to retail seed prices an adequate profit margin
for marketing.

      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the ADPs and FASCOMs
carry out the second and third stages of pricing policy for
certified seed covering the cost items referred to above.

17.   NSS shall require payment of seed certification fees
adequate to cover: (i) by December 31, 1992, at least 50% of
operational costs; and (ii) by December 31, 1995, at least 100% of
all operational costs.

