d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3063 ZIM

                    Loan Agreement

  (Agricultural Credit and Export Promotion Project)

                        between

                       ZIMBABWE

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated January 31, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3063 ZIM

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1990, between ZIMBABWE
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a
loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and IFAD;

     (C)  the Borrower intends to obtain from the Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) a loan
(the BADEA Loan) in an amount equivalent to nine million
seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($9,750,000) to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the BADEA Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and

BADEA;

     (D)  Part of the Project will be carried out by the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to AFC part of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing to extend the Loan to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and AFC;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "AFC Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and AFC of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
AFC Project Agreement;

     (b)  "AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AFC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the AFC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

     (c)  "CMB" means the Borrower’s Cotton Marketing
Board;

     (d)  "CMB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CMB
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes all schedules to the CMB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

     (e)  "Sub-Loan" means a credit made or proposed to
be made by AFC to a Sub-borrower (as such term is
hereinafter defined) to finance any of the items
specified or referred to in Part A or C of the Project
out of the proceeds of the Loan;

     (f)  "Sub-borrower" means a farmer or a group of
farmers or a farming cooperative to whom or to which AFC
has made or proposes to make a Sub-Loan;

     (g)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (h)  "MLARR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Lands,
Agriculture and Rural Resettlement;

     (i)  "R & SS" means the Borrower’s Research and
Specialized Services under MLARR;

     (j)  "Smallholder Farmer" means a farmer operating
in the Borrower’s Communal Areas and Resettlement
Schemes; and

     (k)  "AFC Act" means the Agricultural Finance
Corporation Act, Chapter 101 of the Laws of the Borrower,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of thirty-six million three hundred thousand
dollars ($36,300,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars three special
accounts (Special Accounts A, B and C respectively) in
the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedules 4, 5 and 6 respectively to
this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month

               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
     commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
     1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall
carry out Parts D, E and F of the Project through CMB and
R & SS under the supervision of MLARR, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

     (b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause AFC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the AFC Project Agreement all the
obligations of AFC therein set forth, shall take or cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable AFC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.

     (c)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall:

          (i)  relend part of the proceeds of the Loan
               to AFC and CMB, for the respective parts
               for which they are responsible for
               executing, under subsidiary loan
               agreements to be entered into between the
               Borrower and AFC and CMB respectively
               and, under terms and conditions which
               shall have been approved by the Bank
               which shall include, inter alia, interest
               at a rate of 9.75% per annum, repayment
               of principal in 15 years including 3
               years of grace and the foreign exchange
               risk to be borne by the Borrower;

          (ii) exercise its rights under each Subsidiary
               Loan Agreement in such manner as to
               protect the interests of the Borrower and
               the Bank and to accomplish the purposes
               of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall
               otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
               assign, amend, abrogate or waive each
               such Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
               provision thereof; and

         (iii) adopt appropriate procedures to
               ensure the allocation of foreign
               exchange required to finance
               imported items under Sub-loans made
               by AFC to Sub-borrowers.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for Parts D, E and F of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement, and procurement of goods, works and
consultants’ services for Parts A, B and C of the Project
shall be governed by the provisions set forth in Schedule
3 to the AFC Project Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and
C of the Project shall be carried out by AFC pursuant to
Section 2.04 of the AFC Project Agreement.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all
necessary measures to complete the studies referred to in
Parts F.1 and F.2 respectively of the Project by no later
than December 31, 1990 and June 30, 1990 respectively and
shall furnish to the Bank the reports of such studies for
its review and comments.

     (b)  Following review and comment by the Bank, the

Borrower shall implement appropriate recommendations of
the studies paying due regard to any comments which shall
have been made by the Bank.

     Section 3.05. Without any limitation or restriction
upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment by no later than March 31, 1992, a
detailed assessment of overall Project implementation on
the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
After review of such assessment by the Borrower and the
Bank, the Borrower shall, after consultation with the
Bank, implement such changes in Project execution which
are considered necessary to ensure the achievement of the
objectives of the Project as set forth in the
introductory paragraph of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that
producer prices will continue to be maintained at levels
adequate to provide producers with appropriate
incentives.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and account adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
Parts D, E and F of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
Parts D, E and F of the Project or any part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for Special Accounts B
               and C for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records
               and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time
               reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,

               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. (a) Without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, the Borrower shall take all action which may
be required on its part so that AFC shall charge interest
rates on its Sub-loans which shall be at least equal to
the minimum rate charged on overdrafts by commercial
banks to their most favorable commercial customers, as
long as AFC’s spread shall at all times be sufficient to
cover AFC’s fixed and recurrent costs.

     (b)  To that end, the Borrower and AFC shall review
periodically but at least once annually the interest
rates and lending terms applicable to AFC’s Sub-loans.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  AFC have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the AFC Project Agreement.

     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AFC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (c)  the AFC Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of AFC to perform any of its
obligations under the AFC Project Agreement.

     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of AFC or for the
suspension of its operations.

     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:

               (A)  the right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                    or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or termi-
                    nated in whole or in part, pursuant
                    to the terms of the agreement
                    providing therefor, or

               (B)  any such loan shall have become due

                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.

          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Bank that:

               (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
                    termination or prematuring is not
                    caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its
                    obligations under such agreement;
                    and

               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

     (c)  the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  the IFAD Loan Agreement and the BADEA Loan
Agreement have been duly executed on behalf of the
Borrower and IFAD, and the Borrower and BADEA,
respectively, and all conditions (if any) precedent to
the effectiveness or initial disbursement of funds, other
than fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of this Agreement have been satisfied;

     (b)  the AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the CMB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have each been duly executed on
behalf of the Borrower and AFC and CMB, respectively; and

     (c)  the position of Deputy General Manager
(Finance) of AFC shall have been filled by a person whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the AFC Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by AFC, and is legally binding
upon AFC in accordance with its terms; and

     (b)  that the AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
CMB Subsidiary Loan Agreement have each been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and AFC and CMB
respectively and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
AFC and CMB respectively in accordance with their
respective terms.

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the
time responsible for Finance, Economic Planning and
Development is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Secretary to the Treasury
          Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
               and Development
          Private Bag 7705
          Causeway
          Harare, Zimbabwe

          Cable address:           Telex:

               MINFIN                   MINFIN 22141 ZM
               Harare                   Zimbabwe

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                        64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               ZIMBABWE

               By /s/ S. G. Chigwedere
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans
    under Parts A
    and C of the
    Project for:

    (a) Smallholder      7,735,000       100% of amount
        Farmers                          disbursed by
                                         AFC

    (b) Commercial      15,100,000       75% of amount
        Area Farmers                     disbursed by
                                         AFC

(2) Works under:                         30%

(3) Machinery and                         100% of foreign
    equipment under:                      expenditures and
                                          75% of local
                                          expenditures

    (a) Part B of        1,738,000
        the Project

    (b) Part D of        1,525,000
        the Project

    (c) Part E of          152,000
        the Project

    (a) Part B of        1,772,000
        the Project

    (b) Part D of        3,383,000
        the Project

    (c) Part E of          199,000
        the Project

(4) Vehicles under:                       100% of foreign
                                          expenditures and
                                          75% of local
                                          expenditures

    (a) Parts B and        514,000
        C of the
        Project

    (b) Part D, of         144,000
        the Project

    (c) Part E of          119,000
        the Project

(5) Unallocated          3,919,000

       TOTAL            36,300,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and

     (b)  payments made for expenditures under Categories
2 (b) , 3 (b) and 4 (b) until the Borrower shall have
adopted appropriate measures that would enable CMB to
generate increased revenues from its operations so as to
eliminate the deficit on its trading accounts effective
from CMB’s financial year 1990-1991 and thereafter.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase
credit to smallholder and commercial farmers; (ii)
strengthen the operational capacities of AFC including
expansion of its field facilities; (iii) promote the use
of farmer groups for credit, produce procurement and
input supply purposes; (iv) expand and improve cotton
processing and post-harvest facilities; and (v)
strengthen horticultural post-harvest research as well as
export marketing.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

1.   Making of Sub-loans by AFC to Smallholder Farmers to
finance seasonal inputs and services, on-farm capital
developments, farm machinery and equipment, including
work-ox and related implements and motorized or ox-drawn
farm transport with capacities under 10 tons.

2.   Making of Sub-loans by AFC to commercial farmers to
finance seasonal inputs and services and on-farm capital
developments, farm machinery and equipment for export and
import substitution.

     Strengthening the operational capabilities of AFC
through: (i) the construction of about 16 district
offices and related staff accommodation, and acquisition
of about 30 four-wheel drive pick-ups and about 40
motorcycles; (ii) updating and expansion of the main
computer facility and associated spares, tapes, disks,

supplies and software; (iii) the provision of about 38
man-months of technical advisory services to man the
computer system, assist in installation of the new
computer system and training in data processing.

Part C:

Part D:

1.   Carrying out of a Group Lending Pilot Scheme by AFC
involving Loans to selected cooperatives and informal
farmer groups in about 6 districts with at least 3 wards
in each district.

2.   As part of the Scheme referred to in Part C.1 above,
carrying out a training program for, inter alia, credit
administration, loan assessment and supervision;
commodity assembling, grading and marketing, group
organization and management and financial record keeping
and provision of technical advisory services, support
staff, vehicles and office supplies.

     Expansion and improvement of cotton processing and
post-harvest facilities through:

          (i)  construction of a new cotton ginnery
               including roller gin processing
               facilities in the North Eastern
               production area with an annual minimum
               capacity of about 25,000 tons of long
               staple seed cotton, including, inter
               alia, a machinery building, ancillary
               storage facilities and service roads,
               office blocks and about ten staff houses;

          (ii) acquisition of about 2 tractors, 3
               trailers, 75 trolleys, 4 forklift trucks,
               16 lint-cleaner machines and 1 transport
               truck; and

         (iii) provision of spare parts for
               existing ginneries and tools and
               equipment for workshops and training
               for CMB technicians in electrical,
               hydraulic and mechanical
               engineering.

Part E:

Part F:

     Strengthening of horticultural post-harvest research
at Marondera Research Station, including expansion of the
research buildings and provision of cold storage
facilities and equipment and acquisition of vehicles,
laboratory apparatus, about 3 pick-up trucks and a four-
wheel drive vehicle and tractor.

     Carrying out of: (i) a study for the improvement of
the marketing of horticultural exports; and (ii) a cotton
sub-sector study and provision of technical advisory
services to install new research facilities.

                     *   *   *   *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.

                  ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

     Incremental Staff under Part B of the Project

               1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total

Branch-
  Inspectors   8    1    2    2    3    3    19

District-
  Inspectors   16   5    6    5    9    9    50

Assistant-
  Inspectors   28   10   12   10   18   18   96

     Total     52   16   20   17   30   30  165

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (Expressed in
dollars)*

January 15, 1995                   665,000.00
July 15, 1995                      690,000.00
January 15, 1996                   720,000.00
July 15, 1996                      745,000.00
January 15, 1997                   775,000.00
July 15, 1997                      805,000.00
January 15, 1998                   835,000.00
July 15, 1998                      865,000.00
January 15, 1999                   900,000.00
July 15, 1999                      935,000.00
January 15, 2000                   970,000.00
July 15, 2000                     1,005,000.00
January 15, 2001                  1,045,000.00
July 15, 2001                     1,085,000.00
January 15, 2002                  1,125,000.00
July 15, 2002                     1,170,000.00
January 15, 2003                  1,215,000.00
July 15, 2003                     1,260,000.00
January 15, 2004                  1,310,000.00
July 15, 2004                     1,360,000.00
January 15, 2005                  1,410,000.00
July 15, 2005                     1,465,000.00
January 15, 2006                  1,520,000.00
July 15, 2006                     1,580,000.00
January 15, 2007                  1,640,000.00
July 15, 2007                     1,705,000.00
January 15, 2008                  1,770,000.00
July 15, 2008                     1,835,000.00
January 15, 2009                  1,905,000.00
July 15, 2009                     1,990,000.00

    Total                        36,300,000.00

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)

                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment,
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.15
     before  maturity

More than three years but               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                 0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not              0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not              0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before               1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

                   Special Account A

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
1, 2(a), 3(a) and 4(a) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank

               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B and
C of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Parts A, B and C of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B and C of the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case

may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit into the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                   Special Account B

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
2(b), 3(b) and 4(b) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Part D of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of t his Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is

               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part D of the
Project, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part D of
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, with-
drawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
for Part D of the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit into the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit into the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 6

                   Special Account C

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
2(c) 3(c) and 4(c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts E and F of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for

               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts E and F of
the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts E
and F of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts E and F of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit into
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B)deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit into the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions

of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 7

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods
(machinery, equipment and vehicles) under Parts D, E and
F of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for machinery
and equipment and for vehicles shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more each.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in Zimbabwe may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Civil works contracts may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   (a)  Machinery and equipment and (b) vehicles which
cannot be bulked in bidding packages estimated to cost
more than $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of Special Account B or C, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of Special Account B or C, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to

be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 5 and
6 to this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this
Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts D and F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

