d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3168 MOR

                    Loan Agreement

               (Highway Sector Project)

                        between

                  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated March 15, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3168 MOR

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1990, between KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  the Borrower (1) has contracted from the
African Development Bank (the AfDB) loans (the Cofinance)
in an aggregate amount equivalent to $77,000,000 to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in loan agreements entered into
between the Borrower and the AfDB and (2) further intends
to contract from the AfDB a loan (the Additional
Cofinance) in an aggregate amount equivalent to
$33,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
Additional Cofinancing Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the AfDB;

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Ministry of Public Works" means the Borrower’s
Ministry responsible for the development of the
Borrower’s road network (Ministere des Travaux Publics,
de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des
Cadres);

     (b)  "Ministry of Transport" means the Borrower’s
Ministry responsible for the planning, regulation and
oversight of transport activities throughout the
Borrower’s territory (Ministere des Transports), and

     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of seventy-nine million dollars ($79,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain a special account in a
currency and a financial institution, both satisfactory
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1994 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates

specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c)  (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the interest rate for the Interest
Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall be
seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the generality
of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:

     (a)  in order to facilitate the carrying out of Part
A of the Project: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than September 30 of each year for the Bank’s
comments, the Borrower’s proposed road investment program
for the following year and subsequent years through
calendar year 1992, together with a financing plan there
for, said program to include a detailed program of road
rehabilitation and resurfacing, construction of
facilities and provision of equipment to be carried out
during the next year under Parts A (2), A (3) and A (4)
of the Project and a technical and economic evaluation,
carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank, of the proposed rehabilitation activities; and
(ii) thereafter finalize said road investment program,
taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon and
take all measures necessary to ensure its prompt
implementation; and

     (b)  (i) carry out Part B of the Project in
accordance with an implementation program satisfactory to
the Bank; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than September 30 of each year for the Bank’s review, a
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of said Part
B and the measures recommended to sustain and further
such progress; and (iii) introduce such measures after
taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.

     Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     (b)  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  The Additional Cofinancing Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1990 or such
later date as the Bank may otherwise agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the

Borrower under this Agreement.

     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:

               (A)  the right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                    or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing there for; or

               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.

          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A)
               such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused
               by the failure of the Borrower to perform
               any of its obligations under such
               agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on terms and
               conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this
               Agreement.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of
that Section.

                      ARTICLE VI

                      Termination

     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministere des Finances
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco

          Cable address:           Telex:

               MINISTERE FINANCES       31936M
               Rabat

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

               By /s/ Ali Benjelloun
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Works under     55,700,000       64%
   Parts A (2) and
   A (3) of the
   Project

(2)    Goods under      2,700,000       100% of foreign
   Parts A(4), B(3)                     expenditures,
   and B(4) of                          100% of local
   the Project                          expenditures
                                        (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 70%
                                        of local ex-
                                        penditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3)    Consultants’     5,500,000       80%
   services

(4)    Training           450,000       100%
   abroad

(5)    Unallocated     14,650,000

       TOTAL           79,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to: (1) assist in
the development and upgrading of the Borrower’s highway
network; (2) implement transport policy and institutional
reforms designed to increase the financial and economic
efficiency of the Borrower’s transport sector; and (3)
increase the efficiency of the Borrower’s construction
sector.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

     Carrying out of the Borrower’s road investment
program for the period 1990 through 1992, consisting of:

(1)  Construction of roads.

(2)  Rehabilitation and resurfacing of roads, restoration
of road shoulders, pavement marking, and reconstruction
of bridges.

(3)  Construction of workshop facilities and a national
center for vehicle inspection and testing.

(4)  Provision of equipment required for road
maintenance, traffic counting, road safety and workshops.

Part B:

(1)  Carrying out of a program to define and implement a
strategy to improve the organization and efficiency of
the road transport industry, including the carrying out
of a study to develop a national master plan for the
transport sector.

(2)  Reclassification of the Borrower’s network of roads
so as to facilitate a suitable allocation of
responsibilities between the various governmental
authorities responsible for investment and maintenance of

said network.

(3)  Carrying out of a program to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Public
Works, including development of a suitable pavement
management system, development of suitable strategies for
road maintenance and widening of roads, strengthening of
technical and research capabilities and development and
implementation of a suitable program of road maintenance
training, including provision of facilities, training
equipment and materials required therefor.

(4)  Carrying out of a program to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Transport
in the areas of (a) road transport planning and
management and (b) road safety, including provision of
training equipment and materials required there for.

(5)  Carrying out of transport sector studies, including,
inter alia, studies to develop transport in rural areas
and to enhance road maintenance in such areas.

(6)  Development and carrying out of a program to
increase the efficiency of the construction sector.

                       *   *   *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1993.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

November 1, 1995                             1,440,000
May 1, 1995                                  1,495,000
November 1, 1996                             1,555,000
May 1, 1997                                  1,615,000
November 1, 1997                             1,675,000
May 1, 1998                                  1,740,000
November 1, 1998                             1,810,000
May 1, 1999                                  1,880,000
November 1, 1999                             1,950,000
May 1, 2000                                  2,025,000
November 1, 2000                             2,105,000
May 1, 2001                                  2,185,000
November 1, 2001                             2,270,000
May 1, 2002                                  2,360,000
November 1, 2002                             2,450,000
May 1, 2003                                  2,545,000
November 1, 2003                             2,645,000
May 1, 2004                                  2,745,000
November 1, 2004                             2,850,000
May 1, 2005                                  2,960,000
November 1, 2005                             3,075,000
May 1, 2006                                  3,195,000
November 1, 2006                             3,320,000
May 1, 2007                                  3,445,000
November 1, 2007                             3,580,000
May 1, 2008                                  3,720,000
November 1, 2008                             3,865,000
May 1, 2009                                  4,015,000
November 1, 2009                             4,170,000
May 1, 2010                                  4,315,000

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates

     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment            Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not               0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not              0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before              1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   Bidders for the reconstruction of bridges shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in the Kingdom of Morocco be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the

Guidelines and paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$2,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $70,000,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of pre-qualification:

     With respect to the prequalification of bidders as
provided in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to (i) the first contract for
goods and the first contract for works to be tendered for
the purpose of carrying out the Project, regardless of
the cost thereof, (ii) each contract for works (other
than bridge reconstruction) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, (iii) each contract for
bridge reconstruction estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more, and (iv) each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

     Consultants’ services shall be procured under
contracts awarded to consultants: (A) whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who
shall be selected in accordance with principles and

procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the ProJect and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures. All such deposits
               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall
               have been justified by said documents and

               other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

