d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                        LOAN NUMBER 3141-ME

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

        (Second Agricultural Marketing Project)

                        between

        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                          and

              NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                 Date January 23, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3141-ME

     AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1990 between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower)

     WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such

other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement;

     (C)  by the FIDEC Project Agreement of even date
herewith, between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, as
trustee for Fondo para el Desarrollo Comercial (FIDEC),
the latter has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in the FIDEC Project Agreement;

     (D)  by the SNIM Convenio of even date herewith, to
be entered into between the Borrower and Servicio
Nacional de Informacion de Mercados (SNIM), the latter
will undertake the obligations set forth in the SNIM
Convenio; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREE AS
FOLLOWS:

                       ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 985, with the last sentence of section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:

     Section 1.02. Unless the context  otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (b)  "BANXICO" means Banco de Mexico, the central
bank of the Guarantor;

     (c)  "Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de
Fideicomiso, dated May 7, 1980, between the Guarantor and
BANXICO, whereby Fondo para el Desarrollo Comercial was
entrusted to BANXICO as trustee;

     (d)  "FIDEC" means Fondo para el Desarrollo
Comercial, and includes the technical and administrative
organization, resources, staff and facilities used or to
be used by BANXICO to operate FIDEC as trustee;

     (e)  "FIDEC Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC, of
even date herewith, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time;

     (f)  "SNIM Convenio" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SNIM (as
hereinafter defined), referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement;

     (g)  "Beneficiary" means a person or a group of
persons or an entity having juridical capacity under the
laws of the Guarantor engaged in the production,
wholesale or retail marketing or exporting of food
products, to which a Participating Bank proposes to make
or has made a Subloan (as hereinafter defined):

     (h)  "Investment Project" means a specific marketing
development project to be carried out by a beneficiary
consisting of one or more of the following activities, or
such other marketing activities as shall be acceptable to
the Bank:

       (i)     construction, expansion, remodeling and
               acquisition of food marketing
               infrastructure, including, inter alia,
               wholesale markets or units within such
               markets to be purchased by individual
               wholesalers, warehouses, refrigeration
               equipment, collection centers, retail
               markets and supermarkets; and

      (ii)     acquisition of equipment, including,
               inter alia, scales, shelving equipment,
               racks, counters, cash registers, computer
               systems, specialized loading and
               transport equipment, and other physical
               investments related to food marketing
               undertaken by producers, wholesalers,
               retailers, exporters and agroprocessors;

     (i)  "Working Capital" means the financing
requirements resulting from increased use of raw
materials, spare parts and other physical inputs required
to expand inventories and receivables and raise the level
of revenues of a Beneficiary;

     (j)  "Working Capital Project" means a specific
development project consisting of the provision of
Working Capital to a Beneficiary;

     (k)  "Subproject" means an Investment Project or a
Working Capital Project, as the case may be;

     (l)  "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be
          made by a Participating Bank from the proceeds
          of the Loan for purposes of a Subproject;

     (m)  "SNIM" means Servicio Nacional de informacion
de Mercados, a public decentralized organization with
juridical personality (organismo publico decentralizado,
con personalidad juridica y patrimonios propios),
established pursuant to decree of the President of the
Guarantor, published in Diario Oficial de la Federacion,
Segunda Seccion of the Guarantor, Tomo CCCLXXVI. No. 19,
dated September 17, 1984.

     (n)  "CETES" means Certificados de la Tesoreria de
la Federacion (Federal Treasury Certificates), as defined
in the Diario Oficial de la Federacion, dated November
28, 1977, published by the Guarantor;

     (O)  "CETES Rate" means the average annual yield,
calculated monthly, on CETES with maturities of up to one
month, issued during the month in which a CETES Rate is
calculated, or such other index reflecting the cost of
funds to the Guarantor as shall be acceptable to the
Guarantor and the Bank;

     (p)  "LIBOR" means the average rate per annum at
which term deposits in dollars maturing in three (3)
months are offered in the London interbank market at 110
a.m. (London time) two business days before the date the
rate of interest on the onlent funds denominated in
dollars is calculated.  For this purpose, "business day"
means a day on which dealings in dollar deposits between
banks may be carried on in London, England, and on which
banks are open in Mexico City, Mexico;

     (q)  "Normatividad" means de Normatividad para el
Ejercicio de Creditos Provenientes de Organismos
Financieros Internacionales Destinados a la Banca de
Desarrollo y Fondos de Fomento con Apoyos del Gobierno
Federal por Diferenciales Negativos en Tasas de Interes,
(Regulations Governing the Use of Loans from
International Financial Institutions to Development Banks
and Funds with Assistance from the Federal Government for
Negative Differentials in Interest Rates) issued by the
Secretaria de Hacienda Credito Publico and the Secretaria
de Programacion y Presupuesto, by means of Oficio No.
102-B-049, dated November 18, 1988;

     (r)  "peso" means the currency unit of the
Guarantor;

     (s)  "Lending Policy Regulations" means Reglas
Generales de Operacion del Fondo para el Desarrollo
Comercial (FIDEC), approved by the Technical Committee
(as hereinafter defined) on July 28, 1989;

     (t)  "Appraisal Manual" means the Manual de
Evaluacion of FIDEC, dated November 2, 1989, and
furnished to the Bank, as amended from time to time;

     (u)  "General Interest Rate Agreement" means the
General Agreement on Interest Rates Applicable to Credit
Operations of Fondos de Fomento financed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
between the Guarantor and the Bank, dated August 7, 1984,
as amended;

     (v)  "Participating Bank" means any credit
institution approved by BANXICO to participate in the
carrying out of Part A of the Project by making Subloans
to Beneficiaries;

     (w)  "CPP" means Costo Porcentual Promedio de
Captacion, as defined in Diario Oficial de la Federacion,
dated October 16, 1981, published by the Guarantor, or
such other reference rate as shall be acceptable to the
Guarantor and the bank; and

     (x)  "PVP" means the Sistema de Pagos Variables al
valor Presente, a repayment system which permits the
partial capitalization of interest in order to maintain
the present value of combined repayments of principal and
interest of a Subloan.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each witihdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described In Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the

Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a bank acceptable to the Bank in terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal @t of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (l/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.

     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

           (iii)    "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

               "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
               the principal amount of the Loan
               withdrawn and outstanding from time to
               time, at a rate for each  Quarter equal
               to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
               determined in respect of the preceding
               Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
               (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
               specified in Section 2.06 of this
               Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
               interest accrued on the principal amount
               outstanding during the preceding Interest
               Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."

               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end
               of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify
               the Borrower and the Guarantor of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
               in respect of such Quarter."

               "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
               period commencing on January 1, April 1,
               July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3. 01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
with the Guarantor and BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC; and
(ii) with the Guarantor and SNIM providing , inter alia,
for:

          (A)  onlending to BANXICO, as trustee for
               FIDEC, the proceeds of the Loan required
               to carry out Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3 and
               B.4 of the Project, and transferring to
               SNIM by means of a budgetary allocation
               of the Guarantor the proceeds of the
               Loan required to carry out Part B.5 of
               the Project, under terms and conditions
               which shall include: (i) funds onlent for
               Part A of the Project shall be
               denominated and repayable either in pesos
               or in dollars and funds onlent or
               transferred, as the case may be, for Part
               B of the Project shall be denominated and
               repayable in pesos or dollars, as the
               case may be; (ii) the interest rate
               charged on funds denominated in pesos
               shall be equal to the CETES Rate and
               shall be paid on amounts withdrawn and
               outstanding on a monthly basis; (iii) the
               interest rate charged on funds
               denominated in dollars shall be equal to
               the LIBOR Rate plus 0.5 percentage points
               and shall be paid on amounts withdrawn
               and outstanding on a quarterly basis; and
               (iv) principal amounts withdrawn and
               outstanding shall be repaid semiannually
               in accordance with the timetable set
               forth in the Amortization Schedule in
               Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

          (B)  provision by the Guarantor to BANXICO, as
               trustee for FIDEC, in accordance with the
               Normatividad and by means of specific
               annual budgetary allocations, of all
               amounts required to cover: (i) the
               difference, if any, between the CETES
               Rate, or the rate referred to in (A)
               (iii) above, and the interest rate
               charged on the proceeds of the Loan

               onlent by BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC,
               in respect of Part A of the Project; and
               (ii) financial intermediation and
               operating costs of FIDEC in respect of
               Part A of the Project; and

          (C)  payment by the Guarantor to the Borrower
               of all amounts required by the Borrower
               to pay the Bank on account of principal,
               interest and other charges on the
               proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall cause SNIM to carry out Part
B.5 of the Project by means of entering into an agreement
with SNIM, on the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     (c)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, or the terms and conditions of the SNIM
Convenio.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) procurement of the goods, works and
consultants’ services required for Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3
and B.4 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the Schedule 1
to the FIDEC Project Agreement; and (ii) the goods
required for Part B.5 of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured under
established commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.

     Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04,
9.05,9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B.1,
B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project shall be carried out by
BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC, pursuant to Section 2.04
of the FIDEC Project Agreement, and, in respect of Part
B.5 of the Project, shall be carried out by SNIM pursuant
to the SNIM Convenio.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01 (a)  The Borrower shall maintain
separate records and accounts, adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the resources and expenditures in connection
with the execution of the Project.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have such separate records and accounts,
               including the Special Account, for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested;

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank each month

                    certified statements of the Special
                    Account; and

          (iv) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records,
               accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (b) of this Section 4.01, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

          (a)  that BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC, or
SNIM shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the FIDEC Project Agreement or the SNIM
Convenio, respectively;

     (b)  that,  as a result of events which have
occurred after the date of this Agreement, a situation
shall have arisen that shall make it improbable that: (i)
BANXICO, as trustee for FIDEC, will be able to perform
its obligations i@r the FIDEC Project Agreement; or (ii)
SNIM will be able to perform its obligations under the
SNIM Convenio, respectively;

     (c)  that the Trust Agreement of Lending Policy
Regulations or Appraisal Manual shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial
condition of FIDEC or the carrying out of the Project;
and

     (d) that the Guarantor, BANXICO, or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action, for the dissolution or disestablishment of FIDEC
or for the suspensionof its operations.

     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph
(d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, or
that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of said
Section shall occur and shall continue for a period of

sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions;

     (a)  that: (i) the Borrower, the Guarantor and
BANXICO, and (ii) the Borrower, the Guarantor and SNIM,
shall have entered into the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;

     (b) that the Borrower and SNIM shall have entered
into the SNIM Convenio; and

     (c)  that the terms of reference for the study
forming Part B.2 (b) of the Project shall have been
agreed upon with the Bank.

     Section 6.02.  The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank;

     (a)  that the contractual arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been entered into
and duly authorized by, and are legally binding upon the
parties thereto in accordance with their respective
terms;

     (b)  that the SNIM Convenio has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of
the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon the
parties thereto, in accordance with its terms;

     (c)  that the FIDEC Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of BANXICO and is legally binding upon BANXICO in
accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03.  The date April 24, 1990 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

      Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Bank:

               International Bank for
                    Reconstruction and Development
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:                Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (M)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WI)

     For the Borrower:

          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza NAFINSA
          Insurgentes Sur 1971
          Torre Sur, 11o Piso
          CP 01020 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico

          Cable Address:                      Telex:

               NAFIN                          NAFIME 383-1775765
               Mexico City                    Mexico City or
                                              NAFIME  393-1775629
                                              Mexico City

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year
first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By

                                             President

                         NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                         By

                                   Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

                          Amount of the   
                          Loan Allocated          % of
                          (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(1)  Fianancing             79,000,000      80% of the
     of Subloans for                        amount
     Investment                             rediscounted
     Projects                               or otherwise
                                            financed by
                                            BANXICO in
                                            respect of
                                            each Sub-
                                            loan

(2)  Financing of            19,600,000      80% of the
     Subloans for                            amount re-
     Working Capital                         discounted or
     Projects                                otherwise
                                             financed by
                                             BANXICO in
                                             respect of
                                             each Subloan

(3)  Consultant’s             1,050,000      100%
     services under
     Parts B.1, B.2,
     and B.3 of the
     Project

(4)  Goods under                250,000      100% of
     Part B.4 of the                         foreign
     Project                                 expenditures
                                             and 80% of
                                             local
                                             expenditures

(5)  Goods under                 100,000     100% of  
     Part B.5 of                             foreign and
     the Project                             80% of local
                                             expenditures

                                 _______

     TOTAL                       100,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement except that: (i) withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$10,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)
through (5) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 23, 1989;

     (b)  except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
disbursements made by BANXICO to any Participating Bank
in respect of a Subloan during any three-month period of
time, unless the Bank shall have received the evidence
referred to in Section 2.02 of the General Interest Rate
Agreement for said period with respect to Category VII
(Agricultural Marketing Sector) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to said Agreement, as amended:

     (c)  disbursements made by BANXICO to Participating
Banks to rediscount or otherwise finance any Subloan
which is not a free-limit Subloan, as defined in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the FIDEC Project Agreement,
unless such Subloan shall have been approved by the Bank;

     (d)  disbursements made by BANXICO to Participating
Banks with respect to Category (2), unless the Bank shall
have been provided with evidence satisfactory to the Bank

that such Subloans will be incremental to loans made in
the previous years by Participating Banks and financed by
BANXICO; and

     (e)  disbursements made by BANXICO to Participating
Banks with respect to Category (1) or (2), in the event
that any Subloan in question finances goods, and the
importation of such type of goods is prohibited by the
laws and regulations of the Guarantor.

                              SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve
the efficiency of the food marketing system in Mexico
through the adoption of modern technology and improved
marketing methods; (ii) to improve the conditions of
competition through better dissemination of information
on prices and volumes of products traded, and (iii) to
strengthen FIDEC’s institutional capabilities.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Bank and the
Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Financing of Subloans

Part B:   Technical assistance, consisting of:

1.   Studies and institutional strengthening for the
purposes of: (a) establishing of a methodology for
analyzing and monitoring the food marketing sector; (b)
analyzing the distribution systems of selected products
or product groups in order to determine investment
possibilities; (c) reviewing the organizational structure
and technical expertise of FIDEC in order to improve
them; and (d) supporting the function within FIDEC’s
management which will be in charge of the carrying out of
the above studies and will have a permanent advisory
role.

2.   Studies for the purposes of: (a) determining the
feasibility of introducing an auction system in several
wholesale markets and (b) reviewing the regulatory
framework applicable to food distribution in Mexico City
to determine whether it unduly creates barriers of entry
or delays the modernization of food distribution within
the area of Mexico City.

3.   Training for the technical staff related to the
Project, mainly of FIDEC, the commercial banks and the
Beneficiaries, in respect of: (a) modernization of food
marketing; (b) policies, norms and procedures of FIDEC’s
operations; (c) information systems in respect of food
marketing; and (d) Subproject evaluation and supervision.

4.   Acquisition by FIDEC of computer, statistical
information and telecopier systems and documentation
concerning food marketing.

5.   Acquisition of computer and telecopier systems for
SNIM for purposes of enabling SNIM to improve the
collection and dissemination of information provided by
it.

                      *    *    *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                              Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)

     On each February 15 and August 15

          beginning August 15, 1995                  4,165,000
          through August    15, 2006

     On February 15, 2007                            4,205,000

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

       Time of Prepayment                    Premium

                                  The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per
                                   annum) applicable to
                                   the Loan on the day
                                   of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

     Not more than three years
          before maturity                    0.18

     More than three years but
          not more than six
          years before maturity              0.35

     More than six years but
          not more than 11 years
          before maturity                    0.65

     More than 11 years but not
          more than 15 years
          before maturity                    0.88

     More than 15 years
          before maturity                    1.00

                      SCHEDULE 4

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term &Eligible Expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts A and B of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.  The Borrower shall make
withdrawals from the Special Account for payments of
Eligible Expenditures on the basis of the evidence that
the Bank shall have reasonably determined, and shall
debit the Special Account with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency
other than dollars in which the payment was made,
determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between
the dollar and such currency in effect: (i) on the date
of each payment, if the withdrawal from the Special
Account in respect of such payment has been made within
90 days of the date of the payment, or in the case of
Subloans requiring prior approval by the Bank, on the
date of each payment if the request for such approval in
respect of such payment has been made within 90 days of
the date of the payment, provided, however, that the
withdrawal from the Special Account in respect of such
payment has been made within 30 days of the date on which
the Bank has issued its approval of each such Subloan; or
(ii) on the date each withdrawal shall have been made.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the bank, shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank, shall, on behalf of
               the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan

               Account and deposit into the Special
               Account such amount as the Borrower shall
               have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the
               Special Account for Eligible
               Expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the Eligible Categories for Parts A and B of
the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A
and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
$20,000,000.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for Eligible
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower, upon notice to the Bank, refund
to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b), and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                      SCHEDULE 5

       Terms and Conditions of the SNIM Convenio

A.   Execution of the Project

1.   (a)  SNIM shall declare its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Part
B.5 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
agricultural and marketing practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for
said Part of the Project.

     (b)  SNIM shall enter into and duly perform all of
its obligations under the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
Except as the bank shall otherwise agree, SNIM shall not
change or fail to enforce any provision of such
contractual arrangements.

2.   The goods required for Part B.5 of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured by means of established commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank.

3.   SNIM shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Part B.5 of the
Project.

4.   (a)  SNIM, shall, at the request of the Bank or the
Borrower, exchange views with the Bank or the Borrower,
as the case may be, with regard to progress of Part B.5
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
the SNIM Convenio, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.

     (b)  SNIM shall promptly inform the Bank and the
Borrower of any conditions which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by SNIM of its obligations under the SNIM
Convenio.

B.   Management and Operations of SNIM

1.   SNIM shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and marketing practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff.

2.   SNIm shall at all times operate and maintain its
facilities, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs

and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial, agricultural and marketing
practices.

3.   SNIM shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision, satisfactory to the
Bank, for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practices.

C.   Financial Covenants

1.   (a) SNIM shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition and separate records and accounts to
record all resources and expenditures in respect of Part
B.5 of the Project.

     (b)  SNIM shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) above for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months
               after the end of each such year: (A)
               certified copies of such records and
               accounts and of its financial statements
               for such year, both as so audited; and
               (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records,
               account and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall,
               from time to time, reasonably request.

D.   Cancellation and Suspension

     All the provisions of the SNIM Convenio shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.

