d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3339 ZIM

                  (Second Family Health Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 25, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3339 ZIM

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
(Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Economic Community (EEC) a grant (the EEC Grant) in an amount of two
million five hundred thousand European Currency Units
(ECU 2,500,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EEC Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EEC;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA), a grant (the DANIDA
Grant) in an amount of forty-five million Danish Kroner

(DKr 45,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the DANIDA Grant Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and DANIDA;

      (D)   the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
of the United Kingdom intend to enter into a memorandum of under-
standing (the ODA Memorandum of Understanding) for the purpose of
making available goods and services to the Borrower with a value of
two million five hundred thousand British Pounds ((cid:26) 2,500,000) (the
ODA Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the ODA Memorandum of Understanding;

      (E)   the Borrower and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway
(Norway) intend to enter into an agreement (the Norwegian Grant
Agreement) for the purpose of making available to the Borrower a
grant of eighty million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 80,000,000) (the
Norwegian Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project and for
that purpose, Norway has requested and the Bank has agreed to
administer the Norwegian Grant pursuant to the provisions of an
agreement to be entered into between Norway and the Bank and a
Development Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank as Administrator on behalf of Norway;

      (F)   the Minister for Development Cooperation of the
Netherlands, pursuant to an agreement to be entered into with the
Borrower (the Dutch Grant Agreement), has agreed to make available
to the Borrower on behalf of the Government of the Netherlands a
grant of five million Dutch Guilders (Dfl 5,000,000) (the Dutch
Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project and for that
purpose, the said Minister has requested and the Bank has agreed to
administer the Dutch Grant pursuant to the provisions of an
agreement to be entered into between the Minister and the Bank and
a Development Grant Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Bank as Administrator on behalf of the said
Minister; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   sub-paragraph (k) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added as follows:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;

      (c)"ZNFPC" means the Zimbabwe National Family Planning

Council;

      (d)   "Project Districts" means the Borrower’s districts of
Mudzi and Murehwa in Mashonaland East, Rushinga and Guruve in
Mashonaland Central, Kadoma and Kariba in Mashonaland West,
Bulalimamangwe and Kezi-Matobo in Matabeleland South, Bubi and Nkayi
in Matabeleland North, Buhera and Mutasa in Manicaland, Chibi and
Mwenezi in Masvingo and Chivhu and Kwekwe in Midlands;

      (e)   "Cofinancing Agreements" means collectively, the EEC
Grant Agreement, the DANIDA Grant Agreement, ODA Memorandum of
Understanding, the Norwegian Grant Agreement and the Dutch Grant
Agreement; and

      (f)   "Project Management Unit" means the project management
team referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement
(Family Health Project) between the Borrower and the Bank dated
October 1, 1986 as such team is supplemented pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars, a
special deposit account in a commercial bank, in the name of its
Central Bank for the purposes of the Project, on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedules 6 and 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate

applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and health practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in

accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall through MOH and ZNFPC
recruit and deploy at least 80 qualified community-based dis-
tributors prior to June 30, 1993. Thereafter, appropriate numbers of
such distributors shall be recruited for ensuing fiscal years until
the completion of the Project after agreement reached by the
Borrower and the Bank on the basis of the recommendations emanating
from the Borrower’s studies on (i) family planning services manpower
requirements and (ii) needs and options for family planning rural
outreach services, expected to be completed by December 31, 1991 and
December 31, 1992, respectively.

      (b)   The Borrower shall through MOH recruit and deploy about
40 nutrition coordinators by June 30, 1993.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the surveys referred to
in Part B (5) of the Project for 1991 and 1994 respectively, and
shall submit the results thereof to the Bank for its review and
comments by March 31 of 1992 and 1995, respectively.

      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Central
Mechanical Equipment Department to prepare and furnish to the Bank
and MOH for review and comment, by not later than March 31, 1992, a
plan containing its proposed new arrangements for the maintenance of
vehicles assigned to MOH. Such plan shall include, inter alia,
arrangements for (i) the maintenance of inventories of spare-parts,
and (ii) ensuring the quality of service and maintenance turnaround
times and sub-contracting maintenance to private garages.

      (b)   After review of this plan by the Bank and consultations
with the Borrower, the Borrower shall cause the Department to adopt
and begin implementation of a plan satisfactory to the Bank by
July 1, 1992.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall undertake, three years after
the Effective Date, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
implementation of the Project on the basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall, within four months of
the completion of the evaluation, submit an evaluation report to the
Bank for its review and comments which shall include the Borrower’s
plans to rectify identified constraints.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by

                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

            (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely that,
any event specified in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this

Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (ii) of
that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has appointed persons with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank to the posts of financial
officer and procurement officer within the Project Management Unit;
and

      (b)   the Borrower has appointed an architect and physical
planning advisor to the Project Management Unit with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank and such person has taken up
his post.

      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance, Economic Planning and Development is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Secretary to the Treasury
            Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning
              and Development
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway
            Harare, Zimbabwe

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    MINFIN 22141 ZW
                  Harare                    Harare

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE

                  By /s/ Kumbirai M. Kangai
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated
                           (Expressed in              of %
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1) Works                     19,000,000        40%

(2) Equipment                  2,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3) Unallocated                3,600,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                25,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve maternal and
child health and nutrition in Zimbabwe, (ii) reduce the rate of

population growth, (iii) improve access to basic health, population
and nutrition services by assisting in the adoption of measures,
systems and to acquire skills required to attain this objective,
(iv) increase the output of high-quality trained Zimbabwean health
workers, and (v) enhance the roles of MOH, ZNFPC and relevant non-
governmental organizations in the planning and management of health,
population and nutrition activities at national, provincial,
district and community levels.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Family Planning

      Increasing the access to high quality family planning services
      through:

            (1)   the carrying out of a training program;

            (2)   improving the access to rural outreach services;

            (3)   increasing use of long term contraceptive
                  methods;

            (4)   carrying out an information, education and
                  communications program;

            (5)   expansion of youth advisory services; and

            (6)   strengthening the management of the family
                  planning program.

Part B:    Maternal and Child Health

      Carrying out a maternal and child health improvement program,
including:

            (1)   the acquisition of standard equipment for-
                  facilities in the Project Districts, vehicles and
                  radio communication equipment;

            (2)   training and refresher courses for nursing staff;

            (3)   training of primary school teachers, acquisition
                  of equipment and provision of school health
                  cards;

            (4)   carrying out a study to determine maternal
                  mortality rates in selected areas;

            (5)   carrying out periodically, monitoring and
                  evaluation surveys of health and nutrition
                  services and immunization coverage and
                  acquisition of computer equipment including
                  training therefor;

            (6)   training of health education officers in com-
                  munications research, social marketing, planning
                  and program management and training of health
                  workers in communications, and acquisition of
                  communications equipment for the Project
                  Districts;

            (7)   training midwifery tutors and expansion of the
                  capacity of eight existing state certified
                  midwifery training schools; and

            (8)   strengthening of basic and in-service nursing
                  training.

Part C:     Nutrition

      Carrying out a program to strengthen nutrition activities in
16 Project Districts, including:

            (1)   the carrying out of training courses, study tours
                  and planning workshops;

            (2)   strengthening and improving the targeting of the
                  Borrower’s Community Food and Nutrition
                  Programme;

            (3)   acquisition of vehicles, bicycles and motor-
                  cycles;

            (4)   development, testing and production of nutrition
                  kits for use by village community workers;

            (5)   carrying out a program to improve breast-feeding,
                  including training and information, education and
                  communication activities;

            (6)   carrying out research to facilitate more
                  effective intervention for diarrhea management
                  and infant feeding;

            (7)   acquisition of equipment and supplies for iodine
                  testing and selection of sentinel surveillance
                  sites and development of a nutritional surveil-
                  lance system; and

            (8)   acquisition of equipment and supplies, and
                  training of institutional domestic supervisors.

Part D:     Rural Health Delivery

      Improving access to and the quality of rural health nutrition
and family planning services in the Project Districts through:

            (1)   the construction or upgrading of district
                  hospitals or facilities, staff housing and
                  training facilities in each Project District,
                  including equipment and furniture; and

            (2)   construction or upgrading of rural health centers
                  and staff housing in such Districts.

Part E:     Manpower Development

      Carrying out a health manpower development program, including:

            (1)   extension and strengthening of the Borrower’s in-
                  service training system;

            (2)   strengthening basic training through development
                  and improvement of induction manuals and teaching
                  modules;

            (3)   carrying out specific planning and management
                  analyses and undertaking provincial workshops;
                  and

            (4)   decentralizing the personnel function and
                  information system, including training and
                  acquisition of equipment and materials.

Part F:     Health Management Strengthening

      Improving health management through:

            (1)   the development of skills and procedures for
                  planning, ordering, procuring, utilizing,
                  maintaining and disposing of equipment and

                  materials;

            (2)   the implementation of health finance reform,
                  including the carrying out of studies and
                  acquisition of computers and equipment;

            (3)   integration of data for decision-making and
                  acquisition of computers, printing of manuals and
                  other training materials; and

            (4)   identification of training needs and carrying out
                  of a training program for staff.

Part G:     Project Management

      Coordinating and monitoring of the Project through the Project
Management Unit, including the acquisition of vehicles, computers
and associated software and other office equipment.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1996                                     455,000
May 1, 1997                                          475,000
November 1, 1997                                     490,000
May 1, 1998                                          510,000
November 1, 1998                                     530,000
May 1, 1999                                          550,000
November 1, 1999                                     570,000
May 1, 2000                                          595,000
November 1, 2000                                     615,000
May 1, 2001                                          640,000
November 1, 2001                                     665,000
May 1, 2002                                          690,000
November 1, 2002                                     720,000
May 1, 2003                                          745,000
November 1, 2003                                     775,000
May 1, 2004                                          805,000
November 1, 2004                                     835,000
May 1, 2005                                          870,000
November 1, 2005                                     900,000
May 1, 2006                                          935,000
November 1, 2006                                     975,000
May 1, 2007                                        1,010,000
November 1, 2007                                   1,050,000
May 1, 2008                                        1,090,000
November 1, 2008                                   1,135,000
May 1, 2009                                        1,175,000
November 1, 2009                                   1,220,000
May 1, 2010                                        1,270,000
November 1, 2010                                   1,320,000
May 1, 2011                                        1,385,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the

premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      Before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, (a) contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each, and (b) contracts for works shall be grouped in
contracts with an average value of the equivalent of $17,000,000
each.

3.    Prior to preparing tender documents for the construction of
district hospitals, the Borrower shall send the final designs for
each such hospital to the Bank for its review and approval.

4.    The Borrower shall establish procedures whereby each of its
provinces eligible for the construction or upgrading of a rural
health center under Part D.2 of the Project shall prepare for
submission to the Bank by not later than December 31, 1991, a
justification for the sub-project in each such province. Designs for
such sub-projects shall not be finalized and tender documents shall
not be prepared until the Bank has reviewed and approved each such
sub-project.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zimbabwe may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,

the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank
provided however that the aggregate value of such contracts shall
not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.

2.    Miscellaneous items of goods, supplies and materials estimated
to cost less than $25,000, which cannot be bulked in bidding
packages estimated to cost more than $25,000 per contract up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    MOH shall, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, be
responsible for the overall coordination, monitoring and supervision
of activities under the Project. MOH shall be assisted in this
function by various departments or instrumentalities of the
Borrower, including ZNFPC, its Ministries of Public Construction and
National Housing, Water and Energy, Cooperative and Community
Development, Education, Agriculture, Local Government, Rural and
Urban Development and institutions belonging to the Zimbabwe
Association of Church Hospitals.

2.    In order to facilitate implementation and maximize the
development impact of the Project, the Borrower shall establish a
Project Advisory Committee with the primary function of ensuring
that the objectives and activities of the Project are understood and
to provide guidance, make recommendations on managerial and

financial requirements and generally to review progress in the
carrying out of the Project. The Committee shall be composed of:

      (1)   the Permanent Secretary of MOH or in his absence the
            Principal Medical Director, who shall be Chairman;

      (2)   the Project Manager referred to in paragraph 3 below;

      (3)   Heads of MOH’s Departments of Maternal and Child Health,
            Health Manpower, Health Planning and Management,
            Administration and Finance and Nursing;

      (4)   the Executive Director of ZNFPC; and

      (5)   representatives of the Borrower’s other Ministries
            referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

The Committee shall meet as often as necessary to carry out its
objectives but at least on a quarterly basis.

3.    The Project Management Unit which shall carry out the day-to-
day monitoring and coordination of the Project shall consist of the
Project Manager, the Deputy Manager, a financial officer, an
accountant, a physical planner, a commissioning officer, a procure-
ment officer and an adequate number of support staff. The Project
Management Unit shall also be assisted by an advisor for physical
planning and architecture.

4.    The Project Management Unit shall consolidate quarterly
reports on the Project within six weeks after the end of each
quarter and furnish such reports to the Project Advisory Committee
for its review and comments. The Project Advisory Committee after
such review shall furnish consolidated semiannual reports satisfac-
tory to it to the Bank within eight weeks of the end of each such
six month period.

5.    (a)   Not later than May 15 of each year, beginning from
May 15, 1992, the Borrower shall cause to be prepared and submitted
to the Bank for its review and comments annual plans, including
budgets, in respect of the Project covering the period of 12 months
commencing on the following July 1.

      (b)   Each such plan shall contain information satisfactory to
the Bank and, after review and comments thereto, the Borrower shall
implement plans for the Project for the year in question, having due
regard to any comments emanating from the Bank.

                           SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$250,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that

the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the                  Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,

refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

