d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3306 JO

                   (Emergency Recovery Project)

                              between

                    HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 14, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3306 JO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 14, 1991, between the HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   by agreement of even date herewith (the Swedish Grant
Agreement) the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden has agreed to
make a grant (the Swedish Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to US$10,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Swedish Grant Agreement;

      (C)   the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Bank
have entered into an agreement dated as of May 9, 1991, making
arrangements for the Bank to process applications for withdrawal of

the proceeds of the financing to be provided by the Government of
Sweden and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with the Swedish Grant;

      (D)   by agreement of even date herewith (the Canadian Grant
Agreement) the Government of Canada has agreed to make a grant (the
Canadian Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of
Can$10,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Canadian Grant Agreement;

      (E)   the Government of Canada and the Bank have entered into
an agreement dated as of May 9, 1991, making arrangements for the
Bank to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the
financing to be provided by the Government of Canada and regulating
certain other matters of common interest in connection with the
Canadian Grant;

      (F)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
Switzerland (hereinafter "Switzerland") a grant in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to $25,000,000 (hereinafter "Swiss
Grant") to assist in financing part of the Project on terms and
conditions to be set forth in an agreement (hereinafter "Swiss Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
and

      (G)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (hereinafter referred to as
"Luxembourg") a grant in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
Luxembourg Francs 40,000,000 (hereinafter referred to as the
"Luxembourg Grant") to assist in financing part of the Project on
terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Luxembourg (hereinafter referred to as
the "Luxembourg Grant Agreement"; the Luxembourg Grant and the Swiss
Grant sometimes hereinafter referred to collectively as the
"Additional Grants" and the Swiss Grant Agreement and the Luxembourg
Grant Agreement sometimes hereinafter referred to collectively as
the "Additional Grant Agreements");

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Emergency Recovery Program" means the Borrower’s
emergency recovery program, described in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to

the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of

      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain: (i) a project
coordination unit, with staff and organization satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist the Ministry of Planning in monitoring the progress
of the Project and coordinating its components; and (ii) an emer-
gency response program task force, with organization satisfactory to
the Bank, to provide general oversight and policy guidance in
Project implementation.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Additional Grant Agreements shall have failed to
become effective by December 31, 1991, or such later date as the
Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

     (b)    (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the Swedish Grant, the Canadian Grant
                  or the Additional Grants made to the Borrower for
                  the financing of the Project shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor; and

           (ii)   subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                  to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINISTRY OF PLANNING      2131920
                  Amman

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                  By /s/ H. Hammami
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ R. Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Equipment and         5,200,000           100% of foreign
      Materials                                 expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(2)   Salaries of           3,800,000           90% of local
      Additional                                expenditures
      Educational
      and Health
      Personnel

(3)   Unallocated           1,000,000
                           __________

            TOTAL          10,000,000
                           ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "salaries of additional educational and health
personnel" means salaries of educational and medical personnel hired
subsequent to August 15, 1990.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1991.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The Project is a part of the Borrower’s Emergency Recovery
Program described in the Annex to this Schedule. The objectives of
the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) meeting the
incremental need generated by returning Jordanians for essential
infrastructure and social services; and (ii) expanding employment
opportunities to reintegrate returning workers into the economy.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A:     Infrastructure

1.    Water Supply and Sewerage. Construction of approximately 20
      new wells; provision of equipment, materials and other
      supplies required to: (i) exploit new water resources; (ii)
      increase pumping capacity; (iii) improve the water
      distribution system; (iv) increase efficiency of operations of
      the Water Authority of Jordan; and (v) improve the sewer
      system and waste water treatment.

2.    Highways and Roads. Rehabilitation of approximately 235 km of
      main roads.

3.    Public Transport. Provision of approximately 50 buses, spare
      parts and workshop equipment.

Part B:     Social Services

1.    Education. Provision of equipment, furniture, educational
      materials, maintenance services for educational facilities and
      equipment, and rent for facilities serving as temporary
      classrooms, materials for construction of sanitary facilities,
      and hiring of additional education personnel to meet
      additional enrollment of returning Jordanian children in
      primary and secondary schools.

2.    Health. Provision of: medical supplies, pharmaceuticals;
      maintenance services for civilian hospitals and hospital
      equipment in the Amman, Zarqa and Irbid areas; technical
      assistance for supervision of such maintenance services; and
      hiring of additional medical personnel.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

                    Emergency Recovery Program

      The objectives of the Program are: (i) meeting the incremental
need generated by returning Jordanians for: essential infrastruc-
ture, social services, increased food and inputs for agricultural,
industrial and construction sectors; and (ii) expanding employment
opportunities to reintegrate returning workers into the economy.

A.    Infrastructure

      1.    Water Supply and Sewerage. Developing new water
            resources for the water distribution system; improving
            the water distribution system to limit loss of water;
            improving water testing and treatment capacity;
            improving the monitoring of waste-water treatment and
            discharge; and enhancing maintenance of water dis-
            tribution and sewage disposal systems.

      2.    Highways and Roads. Rehabilitation and maintenance of
            selected highways between Azraq and Amman, provision of
            road maintenance equipment, and rehabilitation and
            maintenance of certain village and rural roads required
            for increased agricultural activities.

      3.    Public Transport. Replacement of buses in the public
            transport fleet of Greater Amman and operation and
            maintenance of public transport vehicles.

B.    Social Services

      1.    Education. Provision of education to children of
            returning Jordanians through provision of equipment,
            building materials, furniture, supplies, maintenance
            services of educational facilities and equipment, rent
            for facilities serving as temporary classrooms, and
            hiring of additional education personnel.

      2.    Health. Provision of medical services to returning
            Jordanians through maintenance of civilian hospitals and
            hospital equipment in the Amman, Zarqa and Irbid
            regions; imports of medical supplies; and hiring of
            additional medical personnel.

C.    Agriculture and Industry

      1.    Essential Food Supplies. Provision of essential
            foodgrains and other food imports.

      2.    Agricultural Inputs. Provision of agricultural inputs
            for production of food.

      3.    Manufacturing and Construction Inputs. Provision of
            industrial and construction inputs.

D.    Employment

      1.    Export Market Development. Development of export markets
            through provision of marketing and information services,
            including the provision to Jordanian firms and trade
            associations of grants to finance marketing studies.

      2.    Loan Guarantee Trust Facility. Provision of a guarantee
            facility in the Industrial Development Bank to serve as
            collateral for small- and medium-scale enterprises which
            enhance opportunities for productive investment and
            employment.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 1 and November 1

     beginning November 1, 1996
     through   November 1, 2007                 415,000

On May 1, 2008                                  455,000
_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

       Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                         0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity

More than 15 years before                       1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                       Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment and materials
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8  Notification and Advertising

            The International community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international cir-
                  culation; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Jordan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    International Shopping:

      Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three

suppliers from two countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Local Shopping:

      Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $750,000, may be awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the first contract for goods awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figures of 20% for contracts valued up to US$4,000,000
equivalent and 15% for other contracts are hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the

Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,

refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

