d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3319 POL

                   (Telecommunications Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

               POLISH POST, TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH

                        Dated May 29, 1991

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3319 POL

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POLISH POST, TELEPHONE
AND TELEGRAPH (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the project;

      (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from European Investment
Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an aggregate amount equivalent
to ninety million dollars ($90,000,000) to assist in financing the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between EIB and the Borrower;

      (C)   by an Agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Act" means Act of Post and Telecommunications of the
Guarantor, dated November 23, 1990, pertaining to the establishment
and operations of the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time
to time;

      (b)   "Telecommunications Operations" means the Borrower’s
operations relating to the provision of domestic and international
telephone, telegraph, telex and electronic data transmission
services;

      (c)   "Action Plan" means the Borrower’s plan of actions for
improving its Telecommunications Operations over the 1991-1993
period by the Borrower pursuant to the Resolution of the Director
General of the Borrower dated August 13, 1990 and whose outline is
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Project Unit" means the Special Project Implementation
Office established by the Borrower pursuant to Resolution of the
Director General of the Borrower dated December 15, 1990, and to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) (i)
of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Tariff Adjustment" means, for the purpose of Section
7.01 (b) of this Agreement, the adjustment to be made to the
aggregate level of the Borrower’s telecommunications tariffs
consisting of an increase or increases, on the basis of a formula
acceptable to the Bank, equivalent in the aggregate at least to: (i)
the amount of (A) the aggregate increase, during the period between
May 2, 1990 and the first day of the quarter within which this
Agreement is to become effective, in the Index of Retail Prices of
Consumer Goods and Services published monthly by the Guarantor’s
Central Statistical Office, and (B) 50% of the estimated increase in
said Index for the quarter within which this Agreement is to become
effective; and (ii) an additional amount equivalent to 30% of the
aggregate level of said tariffs after such level has been increased
pursuant to subparagraph (i) of this paragraph;

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (g)   "DM" means deutsche mark in the currency of the Federal
Republic of Germany.

                             ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each

withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   the Borrower shall, for the purposes of the project,
open and maintain in DM a special deposit account in a commercial
bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) the Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 Of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  the Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section

            2.06 Of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization Schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and telecom-
munications practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Part C of the Project shall be carried out by the
Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of Article III of the
Guarantee Agreement, and for this purpose the Borrower shall make
available to the Guarantor, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement on the terms specified in Section 3.01 (b) of the
Guarantee Agreement.

      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and in order to facilitate the efficient carrying
out of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i)
maintain the Project Unit with staff and other resources and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to coordinate, supervise and
report on the execution of Parts A and B of the Project and the
procurement of goods and services therefor; and (ii) employ
consultants with qualifications and experience, under terms of
reference and in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist (A) in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the
Project, and (B) the Project Unit in carrying out the tasks referred
to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; (ii) at
all times take all steps required to maintain and renew all rights,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business; (iii) by December 31, 1991, establish within its organi-
zation, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the

Bank, an administratively, operationally and financially independent
organizational structure to undertake responsibility for the
management and operations of its Telecommunications Operations; and
(iv) by June 30, 1992, and under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, (A) restructure its corporate activities so as to transfer all
its operations other than its Telecommunications Operations to a
separate entity independent of itself, and (B) reconstitute itself
as a joint-stock company under the laws of the Guarantor with
operations limited to its Telecommunications Operations.

      (b)   Without limitation on the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    carry out the Action Plan with due diligence and
                   efficiency at all times take all necessary
                   action to achieve the objectives thereof;

           (ii)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to
                   enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance
                   with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
                   carrying out of the Action Plan and the achieve-
                   ment of the objectives thereof;

          (iii)    prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and
                   comments, by May 31 and November 30 of each
                   year, progress reports, in form and substance
                   satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress
                   achieved in the carrying out of the Action Plan
                   and the measures recommended to sustain and
                   further such progress based on the results of
                   the monitoring and evaluation activities per-
                   formed pursuant to subparagraph (ii) of this
                   paragraph; and

           (iv)    by June 30 of each year, update the Action Plan
                   and thereafter implement the measures required
                   to ensure the achievement of the objectives
                   thereof, taking into consideration the conclu-
                   sions and recommendations of the progress re-
                   ports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of
                   this paragraph and the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and telecommunications practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                            ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including, without
limitation and until it is reconstituted pursuant to Section 4.01
(a) (iv) (B) of this Agreement, separate records and accounts
reflecting its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
its Telecommunications Operations.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements) and the records
                   and accounts for the Special Account for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-

                   priate auditing principles consistently applied,
                   by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audited
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain, in respect of its Telecommunications
Operations, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
revenues not higher than 80% for its 1992 fiscal year and 75% for
each of its fiscal years thereafter.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section;

            (i)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including admin-
                   istration, adequate maintenance, taxes (includ-
                   ing taxes on profits) and payments in lieu of
                   taxes, and provision for depreciation on the
                   average current gross value of the Borrower’s
                   fixed assets in operation on a basis acceptable

                   to the Bank, but excluding interest and other
                   charges on debt.

           (ii)    The term "total operating revenues" means reve-
                   nues from all sources related to operations.

          (iii)    The average current gross value of the Borrow-
                   er’s fixed assets in operation shall be calcu-
                   lated as one half of the sum of the gross value
                   of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation at
                   the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year,
                   as valued from time to time in accordance with
                   sound and consistently maintained methods of
                   valuation satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree and
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall adjust the level of its telecommunica-
tions tariffs on the first day of each quarter of each fiscal year
as shall be necessary to increase said level by an amount equivalent
at least to the aggregate increase in the Index of Retail Prices of
Consumer Goods and Services, published monthly by the Guarantor’s
Central Statistical Office, during the preceding quarter, plus 50%
of the estimated increase in said Index for the present quarter,
less an amount reflecting the increase in productivity during the
preceding quarter, all as shall be determined in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement; and

      (b)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any Loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such Loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such Agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of

paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the EIB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and

      (b)   that the Tariff Adjustment has been introduced.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
   Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Polish Post, Telegraph and Telephone
            00-940 Warsaw
            Pl. Makachowskiego 2

            Cable address:                 Telex:

               GENTEL                        813001
               WARSAW

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                   POLISH POST, TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH

                   By /s/ Jerzy Stopczyk
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Goods under Part         91,900,000       100% of foreign
      A of the Project                          expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)

(2)   Consultants’              7,100,000   )
      services under Part B                 )
      of the Project                        )
                                            )   100%
(3)   Consultants’              1,000,000   )
      services under Part C                 )
      of the Project                        )

(4)   Unallocated              20,000,000
                              ___________

      TOTAL                   120,000,000
                              ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $12,000,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after February 15, 1991.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in the carrying
out of programs of investments and institutional development to: (a)
rehabilitate and expand the Borrower’s telecommunications facilities
and improve the management and operations thereof; and (b) strength-
en the regulatory functions of the Guarantor’s Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

      Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate and expand the
Borrower’s telecommunications facilities, including the provision
and installation of (1) an overlay digital long-distance network;
(2) international telecommunications network, including an Eutelsat
ground station; and (3) local switching capacity associated with the
long distance network for connection of new subscribers, the
majority of which will be high-volume business subscribers.

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization and
management of the Borrower’s Telecommunications Operations,
including:

      (1)   development and implementation of (a) an appropriate
strategy for digitalization of the telecommunications network;
(b) a preliminary traffic matrix to be utilized in the design of
telecommunications network development to ensure the technical and
economical optimization of such development; (c) appropriate
measures to facilitate the introduction of new telecommunications
technologies; (d) a modern commercial financial system; (e) suitable
financial management information and technical and operational
management information systems; (f) an appropriate strategy for
rationalization of telecommunications tariffs; and (g) a comprehen-
sive master plan for the management and development of human
resources and the streamlining of organizational structures; and

(2)    carrying out of a program to train management and staff
in the applications of modern telecommunications technologies and in
the management of commercial telecommunications operations.

Part C:

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
functions, expertise and operational systems of the staff of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Post and Telecommunications responsible for
the development and enforcement of the regulatory framework
applicable to telecommunications operations, including the provision
of staff training in the ways and means of regulating a commercially
operating competitive telecommunications sector.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      beginning September 15, 1996
      through March 15, 2008                     5,000,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 And 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (B) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     the interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Guarantor’s
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

PART C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $11,500,-
000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees (a) are of a
proprietary nature, (b) the timely supply thereof is critical for
efficient Project execution, or (c) need to be compatible with other
installed equipment, may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   with respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in

paragraphs 2 and 4 of appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   with respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   the provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to: (a) consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

 1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to DM 6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
authorized allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   for withdrawals of the authorized allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as

the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of article v of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   if the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to

cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   the Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 6

                        Action Plan Outline

      The Action Plan describes the program of objectives, policies
and actions designed to facilitate the efficient implementation of
the Borrower’s institutional development strategy further to develop
the organization, management and operations of its telecommunica-
tions facilities. The Action Plan indicates the measures to be
undertaken by the Borrower pursuant thereto and the time frame
within which these measures will be initiated and completed. The
Action Plan includes, inter alia:

      (a)   the measures to define and achieve the Borrower’s
institutional, operational, financial and planning objectives, and
to establish policies to improve the technical, financial and
operational performance of Telecommunications Operations, including
the design and implementation of measures required for the efficient
commercialization of Telecommunications Operations and the intro-
duction of a commercial accounting system and suitable financial
management information and technical and operational management
information systems, the initial separation of Telecommunications
Operations from other operations within the Borrower’s organization
to be followed by the transfer of operations other than Telecom-
munications Operations to a separate entity independent of the
Borrower and the reincorporation of the Borrower as a joint-stock
company under the laws of the Guarantor with operations limited to
Telecommunications Operations;

      (b)   the measures to develop and implement a plan forimproving the Borrower’s 
operational efficiency, including reduction
of operational cost coupled with increased responsiveness to market
signals, upgrading of the quality of telecommunications services
with emphasis on customer and service orientation;

      (c)   the measures to define and implement a comprehensive
plan for the management and development of human resources and the
streamlining of organizational structures designed to support the
Borrower’s strategy for commercialization and expansion of Telecom-
munications Operations and wider application of modern technologies
in the carrying out of said Operations; and

      (d)   the measures to ensure the proper monitoring, evalua-
tion, updating and carrying out of the specific actions required to
achieve the objectives of the Action Plan in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.

