d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3401 MAS

           (Industrial and Vocational Training Project)

                              between

                             MAURITIUS

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated November 5, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3401 MAS

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1991, between MAURITIUS (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   sub-paragraph (k) of Section 6.02 is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) added to read as
follows:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3,
      of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Act" means the Borrower’s Industrial and Vocational
Training Act, 1988 (Act No. 8 of 1988);

      (b)   "IVTB" means the Industrial and Vocational Training
Board established under the Act; and

      (c)   "IVTC" means the Industrial and Vocational Training
Council established under the Act.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of five million four hundred thousand
dollars ($5,400,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after
                   July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
            interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
            the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
            in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall cause IVTB, acting under the
overall supervision of IVTC, to carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational and industrial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, not later
than March 31, 1992, and every six months thereafter, undertake a
joint review of the Project or, in the case of the review to be
undertaken not later than September 30, 1994, a mid-term review,
during which they shall exchange views on matters relating to the
progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments, and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request:

            (i)    not later than one month prior to each such
                   review, a report on the progress and status of
                   the Project, including a detailed statement of
                   all procurement undertaken during the preceding
                   six-months’ period, together with a forward
                   forecast, and the estimated costs, of
                   procurement to be undertaken during the six-
                   months’ period next following;

           (ii)    not later than March 31 of each year, an annual
                   work program, giving details of the progress
                   made in the implementation of the Project for
                   the preceding twelve months’ period, together
                   with the Borrower’s proposals for each of the
                   components of the Project for the twelve
                   months’ period next following; and

          (iii)    brief semiannual reports on the progress of the
                   Project, to be submitted not later than two (2)
                   months after the end of each such semiannual
                   period.

      (c)   Following each review referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and
diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of
the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives
of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than seven months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their pre-
                   aration, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of IVTB or for the suspension of its operations;
and

      (b)   the Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of IVTB to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has submitted to the Bank a proposed
work plan, acceptable to the Bank, which shall form the basis for
IVTC to supervise, and the Bank to monitor, implementation of the
Project.

      Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis
            Mauritius

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINFIN                    4249 EXTERN IW
                   Port Louis

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Paris, France, as of the day
and year first above written.

                   MAURITIUS

                   By /s/ R. Sithanen

                                         Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ O. Lafourcade
                                         Director, European Office

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of

                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

Part A of the Project

(1) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
    furniture                                   expenditures and
                                               85% of local
    (a) under Part C of                         expenditures
        of the Project           350,000

    (b) other                  2,840,000

(2) Technical                    770,000        80% of local
    assistance                                  expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                consultants
                                                domiciled within
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants

(3) Training and                 620,000        100% of foreign
    studies                                     expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Books, periodicals,          410,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                               expenditures and
    supplies                             85% of local
                                    expenditures

(5) Training support             320,000        100% of foreign
    research                        expenditures

(6) Unallocated                   90,000
                               _________

         TOTAL                 5,400,000
                      =========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
            this Agreement; or

      (b)   payments under Category (1) (a) above, unless the
            Borrower has submitted to the Bank, and the Bank has
            approved, details of the proposed training programs
            envisaged under Part C of the Project, together with
            the list of equipment required for each of such

            training programs.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: strengthen the
institutional capacity of IVTB; establish it as the leading centre
of industrial and vocational training; and establish an
appropriate job classification system in Mauritius.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Establishment of IVTB

1.    Direct technical support, and training of local staff, in
the operating divisions of IVTB.

2.    Assistance in selected specialized training areas, including
curriculum design, training levy management, and monitoring and
evaluation techniques.

3.    Assistance in initial training needs analyses, curriculum
design and course preparation, including the preparation of
equipment lists required for cross-sectoral programs under Part C
of the Project.

Part B:     Resource Centre

1.    Civil works for the rehabilitation of facilities at Ebene,
Mauritius, to be used for the establishment of a training resource
centre.

2.    Provision of books, periodicals and other publications, and
other appropriate training tools and equipment, for the resource
centre, to enable trainers, both within and outside IVTB, to have
access to modern training methods and materials.

Part C:     Cross-Sectoral Training Courses

1.    Introduction of a variety of cross-sectoral training
programs designed to develop such industrial, management and
business skills as may be required in the context of the
industrial and commercial activities in the territories of the
Borrower.

2.    Civil works for the renovation of the physical facilities to
be used to house the training programs.

Part D:     Training Information Infrastructure

      Establishment of a job-classification system allowing for
more accurate labor forecast modelling, training needs
identification on a constant basis and labor market changes.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 1 and November 1

      beginning May 1, 1997
      through   November 1, 2008                225,000

