d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3287 PH

                (Industrial Restructuring Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                      Dated January 23, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3287 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Republic of the Philippines (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Charter" means the charter of the Borrower dated
December 3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Institutional Development Plan" means the Institutional
Development Plan dated March 17, 1989, as such plan may be modified
by the Borrower with the concurrence of the Bank;

      (c)   "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by a Participating Financial Institution
out of the proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan in an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project;

      (d)   "Investment Enterprise(s)" means enterprise(s) to which
a Participating Financial Institution proposes to make or has made
a Sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made an Invest-
ment;

      (e)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Private Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment;

      (f)   "Participating Financial Institution(s)" means such
financial institution(s) as may be accredited by the Borrower for
participation in the Project;

      (g)   "Operating Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines
referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (i)   "Statement of Policy" means the policy statement
specifying the Borrower’s objectives, general operational prin-
ciples, investment policies, financial prudence limits, financial
policy and capital structure, and the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower
on April 5, 1989;

      (j)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Financial Institution out of the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project; "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan for an Investment
Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $8,000,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan;

      (k)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the amount made available by the
Borrower to a Participating Financial Institution under the
provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (l)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement(s)" means agreement(s) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Participating Financial
Institution(s) pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
      (m)   "Action Program" means the proposed series of actions to

support industrial subsectors reform set out in the agreement dated
November 12, 1990 and to be carried out by the Guarantor and the
Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred seventy-five million dollars
($175,000,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an
Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan, Subsidiary Loan, or
Investment to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as

                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, in accordance with the Charter
and the Statement of Policy, carry out the Project and cause each
Participating Financial Institution to carry out Part A of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management
and personnel.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to the Participating Financial Institutions under separate
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered
into between the Borrower and each Participating Financial Institu-
tion as such agreements may be amended from time to time with the
concurrence of the Bank, for the purpose of onlending the proceeds
of the Subsidiary Loan to Investment Enterprises in accordance with
the provisions hereof. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, the
Borrower shall not in any way pass on the proceeds of the Loan to
Investment Enterprises directly and shall ensure that the Parti-
cipating Financial Institutions do not onlend the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loans for ineligible sub-sectors identified by the Bank.
      (b)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each Subsidiary Loan and Sub-loan and Investment
will be made or caused to be made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall adhere to the Operating Policy
Guidelines for the operation of the Project. The Operating Policy
Guidelines shall, inter alia, contain those matters as set forth or
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and such
other matters as may be mutually agreed upon by the Bank and the

Borrower from time to time.

      (d)   The Borrower shall cause each Participating Financial
Institution to exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank,
the Borrower and the Participating Financial Institution; (ii)
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

      Section 3.03. No expenditures for goods, services and works
required for an Investment Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan, Sub-loan or Investment shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the
procurement procedures outlined in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been followed to the satisfaction of the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall implement the Institutional
Development Plan diligently and promptly in accordance with its
terms.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.

    Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                  this Agreement, its accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and records and
                  accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
                  year audited in accordance with sound auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by an indepen-
                  dent auditor acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditor,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning the said records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoic-
                  es, bills, receipts and other documents) evidenc-
                  ing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said auditor
                  as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 5 to 1.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally in-
                  curred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
                  extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
                  standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
                  instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
                  on the date the agreement providing for such
                  guarantee has been entered into but only to the
                  extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.

          (iii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total un-
                  impaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.

           (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accep-
                  table to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that:

      (a)   the Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and

      (b)   a change shall have been made in the Operating Policy
Guidelines without the Bank’s consent.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified: the events
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Operating Policy Guidelines of the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been adopted and put into effect; and

      (b)   that a Project Manager with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank has been appointed.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Development Bank of the Philippines
            Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner
            Makati Avenue
            Makati, Metro Manila
            Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  PHILDEBANK                 22197
                  Manila

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                       Regional Vice PresidentAsia

                  DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                  By /s/ E. Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                          Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated          % of
                          (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Goods, works            175,000,000    100% of foreign
      and services                           expenditures and
      financed by                            60% of local
      Subsidiary Loans,                      expenditures
      Sub-loans and
      Investments
      under Part A
      of the Project
                              ___________

            TOTAL             175,000,000
                              ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless the Sub-
loan or Investment has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the revival
and/or the strengthening of the industrial sector of the
Philippines;

      (b)   support sound industrial investment in sub-sectors free
from major distortions;

      (c)   carry out the Action Program in order to make the
cement, pulp and paper, textiles, and shipping and ship repair sub-
sectors more competitive;

      (d)   strengthen the institutional framework for environmental
protection; and

      (e)   strengthen the Borrower’s capabilities: (i) to play a
more active role in the development of the capital market; and (ii)
to act as a wholesale bank channeling term funds to viable retail
financial institutions.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      The financing of Investment Projects through Sub-loans to and
Investments in Investment Enterprises:

1.    Line of Credit for Equipment and Working Capital. To provide
long-term financing to Investment Enterprises, covering plant
improvements or construction and acquisition of equipment as well as
the working capital requirements associated with investment in plant
and equipment; and incremental marketing and worker training and
relocation expenses.

2.    Lease Financing. To provide finance to Participating Financial
Institutions for the purchase of equipment to be leased to Invest-
ment Enterprises.

3.    Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments.  To provide financing for
equity and quasi-equity Investments (including common or preferred
stock, convertible debentures or subordinated debt, which could be
used either alone or packaged in combination with debt) by the
Participating Financial Institutions against their financing the
purchase of equipment, goods, services and works by the Investment
Enterprises.

Part B:

      To carry out institutional development and improvements in the
technical capabilities of the Borrower in accordance with an
Institutional Development Plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and to
undertake subsectoral studies which would: (i) provide sub-sector
data, analyses, and strategies, (ii) develop proposals for subsec-
toral restructuring, including measures to improve the policy and
institutional framework for the sub-sectors selected with the
concurrence of the Bank, and (iii) strengthen the monitoring and
enforcement capabilities of the Guarantor’s Department of Environ-
ment and Natural Resources for environmental protection.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*

July 15, 1996                                   3,195,000
January 15, 1997                                3,315,000
July 15, 1997                                   3,445,000
January 15, 1998                                3,580,000
July 15, 1998                                   3,715,000

January 15, 1999                                3,860,000
July 15, 1999                                   4,010,000
January 15, 2000                                4,165,000
July 15, 2000                                   4,325,000
January 15, 2001                                4,490,000
July 15, 2001                                   4,665,000
January 15, 2002                                4,845,000
July 15, 2002                                   5,030,000
January 15, 2003                                5,225,000
July 15, 2003                                   5,430,000
January 15, 2004                                5,635,000
July 15, 2004                                   5,855,000
January 15, 2005                                6,080,000
July 15, 2005                                   6,315,000
January 15, 2006                                6,560,000
July 15, 2006                                   6,810,000
January 15, 2007                                7,075,000
July 15, 2007                                   7,350,000
January 15, 2008                                7,630,000
July 15, 2008                                   7,925,000
January 15, 2009                                8,235,000
July 15, 2009                                   8,550,000
January 15, 2010                                8,880,000
July 15, 2010                                   9,225,000
January 15, 2011                                9,580,000

_______________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                    Premium

                                      The interest rate (ex-
                                      pressed as a percentage
                                      per annum) applicable to
                                      the Loan on the day of
                                      prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                   0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                   0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

            Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of
           Subsidiary Loans, Sub-loans and Investments;
             Operating Policy Guidelines; Procurement

1.    For Subsidiary Loans from the Borrower to the Participating
      Financial Institutions:

      (a)   Relending interest rates, either fixed or floating,
shall be determined by the Borrower as prescribed in the Operating
Policy Guidelines.

      (b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) above,
floating interest rates shall be reviewed by the Borrower every six
months and in the event of any change, the revised rate shall be
made applicable on both new and outstanding loans/commitments.

      (c)   Repayment of Subsidiary Loans shall conform in relevant
part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to Sub-loans and the schedules of repayment in respect of
Investments.

      (d)   The Participating Financial Institutions shall be
required to observe the procurement guidelines outlined in paragraph
4 hereinbelow.

      (e)   Each Participating Financial Institution shall be
required to maintain records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of each Investment Project and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Participating Financial
Institution.

2.    For Sub-loans and Investments from the Participating Financial
      Institutions to the Investment Enterprises:

      (a)   Participating Financial Institutions shall be required
to observe the guidelines for making Sub-loans, Free-limit Sub-
loans, and Investments as prescribed by the Borrower in the
Operating Policy Guidelines.

      (b)   Sub-loans, Free-limit Sub-loans, and Investments shall
be based on the terms and conditions prescribed by the Borrower in
the Operating Policy Guidelines.

      (c)   The Investment Enterprises shall be required to observe
the procurement guidelines outlined in paragraph 4 hereinbelow.

      (d)   Investment Enterprises and Investment Projects shall be
required to meet the eligibility criteria prescribed by the Borrower
in the Operating Policy Guidelines.

      (e)   Investment Enterprises and Investment Projects shall be
required to observe and conform with relevant environmental laws,
rules and regulations in force in the Republic of the Philippines.

      (f)   Each Investment Enterprise shall be required to maintain
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of each
Investment Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise.

3.    Operating Policy Guidelines

      The Operating Policy Guidelines shall, inter alia, prescribe
the following:

            (i)   the accreditation criteria for Participating
                  Financial Institutions;

           (ii)   procedures for relending by the Borrower and
                  terms  and conditions of the Subsidiary Loans to
                  the Participating Financial Institutions;

          (iii)   the exclusion of the Borrower as a retailer of
                  funds under the Project;

           (iv)   the eligibility criteria for Investment Enter-
                  prises and Investment Projects;

            (v)   procedures for onlending to the Investment Enter-
                  prises by the Participating Financial Institu-
                  tions and terms and conditions of Investments and
                  Sub-loans;

           (vi)   Investment Project documentation (financial and
                  legal) requirements for Investments, Sub-loans
                  and Free-limit Sub-loans;

          (vii)   required minimum loan financing by Participating
                  Financial Institutions in Investment Projects
                  from their own funds;

         (viii)   required minimum equity contribution from Invest-
                  ment Enterprises;

           (ix)   minimum and maximum sizes of Sub-loans and In-
                  vestments;

            (x)   minimum debt service coverage ratio; and

           (xi)   required conformance with environmental laws.

4.    Procurement

A.    Goods, and works under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more shall be procured under procedures
for international competitive bidding satisfactory to the Bank.
However, procedures for limited international bidding and direct
contracting may be allowed for those contracts covering the
procurement of goods in the following cases: (i) in modernization or
expansion projects, standardized equipment or proprietary parts that
are needed for compatibility with existing equipment; (ii) machinery
that is available only from limited number of suppliers worldwide;
and (iii) other technical reasons acceptable to the Bank.

B.    Goods, services and works, other than those set out in
paragraph (A) above, shall be purchased at a reasonable price
following the Investment Enterprise established commercial proce-
dures, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as,
(i) in the case of goods, timely delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, (ii) in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and (iii)
in the case of works, the technical quality and the competitive cost
therefor.

5.    Disbursement Eligibility

      No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under the Operating Policy Guidelines in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the request and information required under the

Operating Policy Guidelines in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  made out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

