d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3308 TUN

             (Hospital Restructuring Support Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 22, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3308 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS: (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and the term "Categories" means
each of said Category;

      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958;

      (c)   "CIS" means the Center for Health Information (Centre
d’Informatique Sanitaire), to be established by the Borrower and
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "CGRH" means the Health Sector Reform Management Board
(Comite de Gestion de la Reforme Hospitalicre), to be established by
the Borrower and referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
coincides with the calendar year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31;

      (f)   "Hospitals" means the hospitals and other health care
institutions established and operating within the Borrower’s
territory and set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and the
term "Hospital" means any one of said Hospitals;

      (g)   "MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health
(Ministcre de la Sante Publique) established pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 87-1, dated January 13, 1987;

      (h)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, to be
established by the Borrower within the MOH to administer the Project
and referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
MOH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, economic, administrative, health care and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      Section 3.02. In order to ensure the proper implementation of
the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   Establish and thereafter maintain with functions,
membership and terms of reference all satisfactory to both the Bank
and the Borrower, a Health Sector Reform Management Board (the CGRH)
to be responsible for, inter alia, monitoring the implementation of
the institutional and financial management restructuring of the
Hospitals, and the carrying out of the Project; and

       (b)  (i) Establish and thereafter maintain within the MOH, in
a form and with functions, resources and terms of reference all
satisfactory to both the Bank and the Borrower, a Project Coordina-
tion Unit (the PCU) to assist the CGRH in carrying out its functions
and, in particular, to be responsible for, inter alia, supervising,
coordinating and administering the overall implementation of the
Project, and (ii) ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with
personnel, including a Director, in numbers and with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference all satisfactory to both the Bank
and the Borrower.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure that:

      (a)   Its government shall prepare, on the basis of the draft
law previously furnished to the Bank by the Borrower under cover of
its letter dated March 25, 1991, and present to its National
Assembly for enactment, a proposed law authorizing the creation of
public health establishments in the form of independent public
enterprises with legal, financial, administrative and managerial
autonomy;

      (b)   Immediately upon the enactment of the law referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and not later than December 31, 1992,
the legal personality of each and every Hospital set forth in Part
B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement shall be duly converted to that of
a public health establishment and the statutes of each of said
Hospital, reflecting its new legal personality and the appointment
of its general manager, shall be duly issued, all in accordance with
the provisions of said law;

      (c)   Immediately upon the enactment of the law referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and not later than December 31, 1993,
the legal personality of each and every Hospital set forth in Part
C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement shall be duly converted to that of
a public health establishment and the statutes of each of said
Hospital, reflecting its new legal personality and the appointment
of its general manager, shall be duly issued, all in accordance with
the provisions of said law; and

      (d)   Immediately upon the enactment of the law referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, and not later than December 31, 1994,
the legal personality of each and every Hospital set forth in Part D
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement shall be duly converted to that of

a public health establishment and the statutes of each of said
Hospital, reflecting its new legal personality and the appointment
of its general manager, shall be duly issued, all in accordance with
the provisions of said law.

      Section 3.04. In order to achieve the objectives of the
Project, the Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure,
after the conversion of the legal personality of the Hospitals into
that of public health establishments, in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 3.03 and 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, that
their legal personality, statutes and basic structures and functions
shall be at all times maintained.

      Section 3.05. Not later than September 30, 1991, the Borrower
shall take all action necessary to ensure that:

      (a)   A Center for Health Information (the CIS), with func-
tions, resources and terms of reference all satisfactory to both the
Bank and the Borrower, is duly established, possessing the legal
personality of a public establishment to be responsible for, inter
alia, managing, standardizing and coordinating the development,
installation and maintenance of a computer network system for the
Hospitals; and

      (b)   A director is appointed to head the CIS, possessing the
requisite qualifications, experience and terms of reference.

      Section 3.06. (a) Not later than September 30, 1992, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the
Borrower’s medium-term plan for the restructuring and further
development of its public hospital sector; and

      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly
thereafter, taking into account the Bank’s comments and recommenda-
tions thereon, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency
and shall at all times take all necessary measures to achieve the
objectives thereof.

      Section 3.07. Not later than September 30, 1991, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a proposed
financial management manual setting forth the modalities and
procedures for the financial management and administration of the
Hospitals and taking into account the Bank’s comments and recommen-
dations thereon, and, not later than January 1, 1992 the Borrower
shall take all action necessary to ensure that said manual is
distributed to all senior managerial and administrative staff in
each Hospital, whose legal personality has been converted to that of
a public health establishment, and is applied in respect of the
financial management and administration of said Hospitals.

      Section 3.08. (a) Not later than December 31, 1992, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
architectural master-plans for the following Hospitals: Charles
Nicolle Hospital (Tunis); General La Rabta Hospital (Tunis); General
Aziza Othmana Hospital (Tunis); Pneumo-Phthisic Hospital (Ariana);
Razi Manouba Hospital (Ariana); Farhat Hached Hospital (Sousse);
Hedi Chaker Hospital (Sfax); Habib Bourguiba Hospital (Sfax); and
Mohamed Taieb Kassab Institute of Orthopedics (Tunis); and

      (b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that: (i) no activities under Part A (4) of the Project in respect
of any of the Hospitals referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be carried out unless and until the Bank shall have approved
the architectural master-plan for such Hospital furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph (a); and (ii) thereafter, undertake
such activities in respect of such Hospital only in accordance with
such architectural master-plan for such Hospital as shall have been
approved by the Bank.

       Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that:

      (a)   Not later than December 31, 1993, the studies referred
to in Part A(6) of the Project shall have been carried out on the
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to both the Bank and the
Borrower; and

      (c)   Not later than December 31, 1994, or such later date as
the Bank and the Borrower shall establish mutually, the Borrower
shall present to its government the conclusions and recommendations
of said studies aimed at, inter alia, improving the allocation of
the operating costs of the Hospitals among their various financing
sources.

      Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine (9) months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of

                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such Fiscal Year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely:

      (a)   That the Borrower shall have established the CGRH and
the PCU referred to in Section 3.02 (a) and (b), respectively, of
this Agreement, pursuant to the provisions thereof; and

      (b)   That the law referred to in paragraph (a) of Section
3.03 of this Agreement shall have been enacted, the Hospitals set
forth in Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement shall have been
converted into public health establishments, statutes for said
Hospitals shall have been issued and a general director for each of
said Hospitals shall have been appointed, all in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraph (a) of Section 3.03.

      Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Ministry of Planning and Regional Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
            Place Ali Zouaoui
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

                                           Telex:

                                             15117

            For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                   By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ W. A. Waphenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil Works                6,600,000        40%

(2) Computer                   5,700,000        100% of foreign
    hardware equip-                             expenditures,
    ment and soft-                              100% of local
    ware                                        expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Goods and equip-          11,600,000        100% of foreign
    ment (including                             expenditures,
    educational                                 100% of local
    materials), other                           expenditures
    than computer                               (ex-factory
    equipment and                               cost) and 70% of
    software                                    local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Consultants’               3,300,000        100%
    services, training
    (including trans-
    portation costs)
    and fellowships

(5) Unallocated                2,800,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                30,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(i) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
three million dollars ($3,000,000) may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1991; (ii) no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower for
expenditures under Category 1 after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn under said Category shall have reached the
equivalent of three million dollars ($3,000,000), and for expendi-
tures under Category 3 after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn under said Category shall have reached the equivalent
of one million seven hundred thousand dollars ($1,700,000), unless
the Borrower shall have furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the legal personality of each and every Hospital referred to in
Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement has been converted to that of
a public health establishment and its statutes issued and its
general manager appointed all in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and (iii) no withdrawals shall
be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or
on the order of the Borrower for expenditures under Category 3 after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn under said
Category shall have reached the equivalent of five million three
hundred thousand dollars ($5,300,000), unless the Borrower shall
have furnished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the legal
personality of each and every Hospital referred to in Part C of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement has been converted to that of a public
health establishment and its statutes issued and general manager
appointed all in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (c)
of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
reform the institutional and financial management of certain of its
public hospitals, including strengthening their capabilities to
provide and deliver health care services, and develop data and
information on said hospitals’ operating costs so as to improve
generally the carrying out of the Borrower’s public health sector
financial policy.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Improving Hospital Organization and Management

1.    Strengthening the PCU’s managerial and administrative
capabilities, including the provision of computer equipment and
related material in respect thereof;

2.    Developing a financial management manual, a financial

management data base and a computerized management information
system for use within the Hospitals, including the provision of
technical assistance and computer equipment and related material in
connection therewith;

3.    Training, including training activities and seminars abroad,
of about 1,000 personnel of the Hospitals to strengthen their
capabilities in, inter alia: (i) Hospital organization, management
and maintenance; and (ii) the development, operation and maintenance
of the computerized management information system referred to in
Part A(2) of the Project;

4.    Rehabilitating and upgrading the administration and patient
registration facilities of the Hospitals, including the provision of
equipment and material in connection therewith;

5.    Providing technical assistance services for the preparation
of: (i) the medium-term plan referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this
Agreement; and (ii) the architectural master-plans referred to in
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; and

6.Carrying out of the following studies, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a study to evaluate and
improve the Borrower’s existing free and reduced voucher medical
health care services program; (ii) a study to evaluate and improve
the health insurance components of the Borrower’s social security
system; (iii) a study to develop a methodology and related timetable
for improving the sharing arrangements for financing the operations
of the Hospitals; and (iv) a study on hazard and environmental
protection and the disposal of hazardous medical waste at the
Hospitals.

Part B:     Improving Hospital Health Care Facilities and Equipment

1.    Rehabilitating and upgrading health care facilities and
related material at certain of the Hospitals to improve, inter alia,
patient wards and electric, sanitation, heating and air-conditioning
networks;

2.    Providing and installing incinerators and fire protection
systems at the Hospitals;

3.    Providing medical equipment and related material to improve
the diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities of and the quality of
health care services rendered by the Hospitals; and

4.    Providing hospital maintenance units, equipment and related
material for maintaining the physical facilities and medical and
health care equipment of the Hospitals.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      On each June 1 and December 1

      beginning December 1, 1996
      through   June 1, 2008                    1,250,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven
      years before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May, 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Limited International Bidding:

      Computer hardware equipment, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of six million dollars ($6,000,000), may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three (3) qualified suppliers, as the case
may be, eligible under the Guidelines, and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Local Competitive Bidding

      Civil works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of fifteen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($15,500,000), and goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
four million dollars ($4,000,000) may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Local Shopping

      Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million dollars
($1,000,000), and miscellaneous equipment estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
one million dollars ($1,000,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three (3) contractors or suppliers, as the case may be,
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Direct Contracting

      Contracts for the procurement of computer software equipment
and related specialized computer programs, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of nine hundred thousand dollars
($900,000), and contracts for the procurement of educational
materials and transportation for students, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of three million six hundred thousand
dollars ($3,600,000), may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of three hundred and
fifty thousand dollars ($350,000) or more per contract, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of twenty percent (20%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,

the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and
3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   Eligible Expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall

reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                       The List of Hospitals

      There follows hereinbelow a list of the Hospitals within the

meaning of Section 1.02 (f) of this Agreement:

Part A:

      Mongi Slim Hospital (La Marsa), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 83-75, dated December 30,
1975;

      Sahloul Hospital (Sousse), established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower’s Law No. 89-115, dated December 30, 1989;

      Hedi Chaker Hospital (Sfax), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree dated October 7, 1942; and

      Center for Maternity and Neonatology (Sfax), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 85-109, dated
December 31, 1985.

Part B:

      Children’s Hospital (Tunis), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 61-65, dated December 31,
1963;

      Center for Maternity and Neonatology La Rabta (Tunis),
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No.
80-88, dated December 31, 1988;

      Mohamed Taieb Kassab Institute of Orthopedics (Tunis),
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No.
85-109, dated December 31, 1985;

      Salah Azaiez Institute (Tunis), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 68-41, dated December 31,
1968;

      National Institute of Neurology (Tunis), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 74, dated
December 30, 1974; Institute of Ophthalmology (Tunis), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 61-65, dated December 30,
1961;

      National Institute of Nutrition and Nutrition Technology
(Tunis), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree
No. 69-178, dated May 19, 1969; and

      Pasteur Institute (Tunis), established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower’s Decree dated February 14, 1900.

Part C:

Part D:

      Habib Thameur Hospital (Tunis), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree dated December 20, 1934;

      Aziza Othmana Hospital (Tunis), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree dated January 20, 1879;

      Pneumo-Phthisic Hospital (Ariana), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 63-58, dated December 31,
1963;

      Razi Manouba Hospital, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Decree dated May 20, 1924; and

      Fattouma Bourguiba Hospital (Monastir), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law of 1968, dated
December 30, 1967.

      La Rabta Hospital (Tunis), established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower’s Decree dated December 20, 1984;

      Charles Nicolle Hospital (Tunis), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree dated June 9, 1987;

      Farhat Hached Hospital (Sousse), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree dated October 7, 1942;

      Center for maternity and Neonatology (Sousse), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 85-109, dated
December 31, 1985; and Habib Bourguiba Hospital (Sfax), established and operating 

pursuant to the Borrower’s Finance Law No. 85-109, dated
December 31, 1985.

