d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3301 IRN

                   (Earthquake Recovery Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

           CENTRAL BANK OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                       Dated March 21, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3301 IRN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CENTRAL BANK OF
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Iran (the Guarantor) and
the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. The General Condi-
tions shall apply to this Agreement to the extent the provisions
thereof are consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Subsidiary Agreement"
means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay a commission on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Commission Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay the commission accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Commission Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Commission Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Commission Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Commission Period in which
                  this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may

                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  commission rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay a commission on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay the
            commission accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Commission Period, calculated at
            the rates applicable during such Commission Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Commissions and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Guarantor under a subsidiary agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Guarantor and Borrower.

      Section 4.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Guarantor and Borrower and
is legally binding upon the Guarantor and Borrower in accordance
with its terms.

      Section 4.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE V

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 5.01. The Governor of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Central Bank of the
              Islamic Republic of Iran
            P.O. Box 3368
            Ferdowai Avenue
            Tehran
            Islamic Republic of Iran

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MARKAZBANK                    3965-8 MZBK IR

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ R. K. Chopra

                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                        CENTRAL BANK OF THE
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                        By /s/ A. Mirakhor
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Equipment and           64,000,000)
     materials for                     )
     Part A of the                     )
     Project                           )
                                       )
(2)  Equipment for           64,000,000)        100% of foreign
     Part B of                         )        expenditures
     the Project                       )
                                       )
(3)  Materials for           94,000,000)
     Part C of the                     )
     Project                           )

(4)  Consultants’             8,000,000)
     services, equip-                  )
     ment and materials                )
     for Part D of                     )
     the Project                       )

(5)  Unallocated             20,000,000
                            ___________

     TOTAL                  250,000,000
                            ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in the (1)
economic recovery through reconstruction and rehabilitation of
agricultural and housing infrastructure within the Guarantor’s
provinces of Gilan and Zanjan damaged by the June 1990 earthquake,
and (2) carrying out of a seismic risk prevention and mitigation
program, which are part of the Guarantor’s overall earthquake
emergency reconstruction program.

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

Part D:

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

      Provision of equipment and materials for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of agricultural facilities.

      Provision of equipment for reconstruction and rehabilitation
of housing facilities.

      Provision of materials for self-help repair and reconstruction
of private houses.

      Carrying out of a seismic risk prevention and mitigation
program for the development and application of appropriate seismic
designs, building codes and practices and earthquake risk assessment
and reduction policies, and the dissemination of information
relating thereto through public education and training activities,
including the provision of technical services and seismic research
equipment and materials therefor.

                        *        *        *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in Dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning on July 15, 1996
      through January 15, 2006            12,500,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                        Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                      The commission rate (ex-
                                      pressed as a percentage per
                                      annum) applicable to the Loan
                                      on the day of prepayment mul-
                                      tiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                      0.40
      not more than six years

      before maturity

More than six years but                        0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                      1.00
      maturity

