d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3392 IND

             (Irrigation Subsector II (O & M) Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated September 5, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3392 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      (B)   the Bank has received a letter, dated October 13, 1987,
from the Borrower including a Statement of Policies for Irrigation
Operation and Maintenance and Cost Recovery, and a four-year Action
Plan (1991/92-1994/95) (together, the Statement); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BAPPEDA" means the Borrower’s Provincial Development
Planning Agency;

      (b)   "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development
Planning Agency;

      (c)   "DGPUOD" means the Directorate General of Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy in the Borrower’s Ministry of
Home Affairs;

      (d)   "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (e)   "EOM" or "efficient operation and maintenance" means
those operation and maintenance activities of a routine nature,
necessary to provide the planned service to water users and to fully
maintain the system (without separate rehabilitation or upgrading
programs) in a condition to function as planned on into the future;

      (f)   "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning April 1
and ending March 31;

      (g)   "ISSP" means the Irrigation Subsector Project as
provided in Loan Agreement dated December 3, 1987, between the
Borrower and the Bank (Loan No. 2880-IND);

      (h)   "NBB" or "needs based budget" means a detailed budget to
adequately cover all EOM for each specific system and reflects the
respective POM and the staff, equipment and actions required to
provide the defined service and fully maintain each feature
(including replacement) and the system’s overall integrity,
permanently on into the future;

      (i)   "PBB" means the Borrower’s land and building tax;

      (j)   "POM" or "plan of operation and maintenance" means a
plan which presents the operating and maintenance concept for a
system and the procedures for all operations actions from the
diversion supply and coordination with WUAs, setting seasonal
schedules, to instruction for operating structures and equipment,
maintenance procedures, schedules, maps, drawings, design and
construction data, staffing levels, qualifications, responsibilities
and training;

      (k)   "PRIS" means provincial water resources services;

      (l)   "Rupiah" means the currency of the Borrower;

      (m)   "SM" or "special maintenance" means those deferred
maintenance needs that have accumulated in a system that had been
fully rehabilitated or constructed and that otherwise contains the
essential structures required in the systems;

      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (o)   "WUA" means Water Users’ Association.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred twenty-five million dollars
($225,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of

this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, engineering, environmental and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Statement and annual work programs satisfactory
to the Bank.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall have
approved all consultant selections by August 15, 1991, and shall by
that date have employed all consultants, provided, however, that the
consultants for operations and maintenance and for the irrigation
service fee shall have been employed by October 31, 1991.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain a Project
Coordinating Unit within DGWRD, responsible for overall coordination
and review of project implementation. Such Unit shall be staffed
with qualified personnel in adequate numbers, including a Project
Coordinator who shall be the Director, Planning and Programming
within DGWRD; and (b) cause BAPPENAS to coordinate monitoring and
reporting progress on the Statement through the functional coordina-
tion of DGWRD, Directorate PBB, DGPUOD, and other relevant agencies
when required.

      Section 3.04. For each Province in which Project activities
are carried out, the Borrower shall: (a) cause PRIS to carry out the
functions of project management and implementation with qualified
personnel in adequate numbers, including a Project Manager who shall
be the PRIS Chief; and (b) cause BAPPEDA to coordinate Project

implementation monitoring and progress.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by January 1 of each year
until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for review and
comment a detailed draft of the Annual Work Program covering all
Project components, including without limitation on the foregoing
(a) the areas selected by the concerned agencies of the Borrower for
the introduction/extension of the irrigation service fee, and (b)
certification by DGWRD that (i) the special maintenance, proposed by
PRIS, comprises minor works and repairs/improvements in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Bank, and (ii) the special maintenance
works, including preparation and implementation of POMs and NBBs,
are completed by PRIS and the schemes are ready for efficient
operations and maintenance.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall turn over, or cause to be
turned over, to WUAs about 40 schemes larger than 150 ha, and all
turnovers, including such larger schemes, shall be in accordance
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including some
equity contributions by farmers and prior approval of the Bank for
any scheme to be turned over which requires funds in excess of the
agreed ceiling.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall select, or cause to be
selected, schemes to be eligible for SM and EOM in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
                   quested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-

                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:

      (a)   an event shall have occurred which shall make it
improbable that the Borrower will carry out the Statement or a
significant part thereof; and

      (b)   (i)    subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, canceled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

            (ii)   Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if
                   the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
                   the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
                   tion, termination or prematuring is not caused
                   by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                   its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
                   adequate funds for the Project are available to
                   the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b)(ii) of this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of

Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINISTRY FINANCE          DJMLN JKT 45799
                   Jakarta                   DITJMON JKT 46415
                                             DEPKEU JKT 44319

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly

                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu

                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works               25,700,000        60% of expendi-
    (incremental                                tures for con-
    efficient                                   tracts signed in
    operation and                               FY 1991/92; 50%
    maintenance)                                of expenditures
                                                for contracts
                                                signed in FY 1992/
                                                93; 40% of ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                contracts signed
                                                in FY 1993/94;
                                                30% of expendi-
                                                tures for con-
                                                tracts signed in
                                                FY 1994/95

(2) Civil works              115,100,000        91%
    (other than
    (1) above)

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Equipment:                                  100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
    (a)  for groundwater         250,000        100% of local
         tubewell systems                       expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
    (b)  other                 2,750,000        65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(4) Consultants               27,900,000        100%

(5) Training (including        5,900,000        91%
    materials)

(6) (a)  Mapping and          14,900,000        91%
         surveys

    (b)  Operational           3,000,000        91%
         expenses

(7) Unallocated               29,500,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               225,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "operational expenses" means expenditures
relating to local travel for supervision, workshops, per diems, and
dissemination programs for irrigation service fee, turnover and WUA

establishment/strengthening.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:

      (a)   unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, for expenditures,
with respect to Categories (1) and (2):

            (i)   after July 31, 1992, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Bor-
                  rower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for FY
                  1992/93 which (1) maintain in real terms financ-
                  ing for nation-wide irrigation operation and
                  maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level and (2)
                  provide incremental funding needed for efficient
                  operation and maintenance; and (B) during FY
                  1991/92, has made actual expenditures for items
                  covered in (i) (A) (1) and (2) above, satisfacto-
                  ry to the Bank;

            (ii)  after July 31, 1993, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Bor-
                  rower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for FY
                  1993/94 which (1) maintain in real terms financ-
                  ing for nation-wide irrigation operation and
                  maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level; (2) provide
                  incremental funding needed for efficient opera-
                  tion and maintenance; and (3) maintain proper
                  levels of operation and maintenance funding on
                  areas previously funded under ISSP; and (B)
                  during FY 1992/93, has made actual expenditures
                  for items covered in (ii) (A) (1), (2) and (3)
                  above, satisfactory to the Bank; and

            (iii) after July 31, 1994, until the Bank has received
                  evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the Bor-
                  rower: (A) has made budgetary allocations for FY
                  1994/95 which (1) maintain in real terms financ-
                  ing for nation-wide irrigation operation and
                  maintenance at the FY 1990/91 level; (2) provide
                  incremental funding needed for efficient opera-
                  tion and maintenance; and (3) maintain proper
                  levels of operation and maintenance funding on
                  areas previously funded under ISSP; and (B)
                  during FY 1993/94, has made actual expenditures
                  for items covered in (iii) (A) (1), (2) and (3)
                  above, satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (b)   expenditures with respect to Category (3) (a) until
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank shall have been made to ensure
the availability of financing for installation of materials and
equipment for groundwater tubewells systems to be procured for 23
distribution systems in the Province of East Java and 10 in the
Province of Central Sulawesi.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s
efforts in the irrigation subsector to provide adequate levels of
funding and to strengthen institutions and procedures, at all
levels, for operation and maintenance planning, programming,
budgeting and implementation, in order to sustain the effectiveness
of the Borrower’s irrigation systems, increase beneficiary par-
ticipation and decrease dependence on government budgets for
operations and maintenance.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

1.    Introduction and extension of the irrigation service fee (ISF)
in systems adjoining the existing ISF pilot areas and in additional
provinces covering a total of at least 700,000 ha.

2.    Extension of the program of turning over small public
irrigation schemes (covering at least 130,000 ha) to water user
associations.

3.    Strengthening the efficiency of the land and building tax in
rural areas by improving existing databases for mapping, land
classification and valuation, and tax administration.

1.    Increase the responsibility, accountability and capability of
PRIS in the areas of planning, managing and executing operations and
maintenance related activities.

2.    Improve quality control for the Project by examining the
project construction work, reporting findings, identifying deficien-
cies, determining causes and recommending remedial measures.

3.    Improve inventory of irrigation and other water uses in a
river basin context and support water basin management, on a pilot
basis, in two basins (Opak in Yogyakarta and Cisanggarung in West
and Central Java), and strengthening PRIS to formulate organiza-
tional arrangements and specific procedures for effective allocation
and routings of basin flows to equitably and efficiently serve the
various water users.

4.    Continuing improvement of operating procedures at the scheme
level, including scheme-specific POMs and NBBs, as well as taking
into account the inter-relationships between design and operations.

5.    Integrate fully the establishment and strengthening of water
users associations in the relevant provincial agencies.

6.    Improve the management and information system at central and
provincial levels, including improving the system for programming
and monitoring, to provide orderly execution of the linked com-
ponents, and improved sequencing within each component, initially in
two provinces in Java.

7.    Improve the system of, and develop indicators for, monitoring
scheme performance by comparing planned with actual delivery of
services and other incremental benefits.

8.    Strengthening the institution building and policy activities
in Parts A and B by providing technical assistance and training
(including training in planning and programming, operations and
maintenance procedures, construction supervision and environmental
effects, training for WUAs, and overseas training related to river
basin management and operation and maintenance).

Part C:

1.    Carrying out of special maintenance works on about 750,000 ha
of surface irrigation systems and on about 45,000 ha of reclaimed
swamp land.

2.    Providing by the end of the Project efficient operation and
maintenance on about 1,700,000 ha of surface irrigation systems
(which includes areas under ISSP) and on about 170,000 ha of
reclaimed swamp land (which includes areas under ISSP).

3.    Completion of the Mesuji/Tulang Bawang (20,000 ha) scheme in
the Province of Lampung; completion of selected groundwater
development projects in the Provinces of South Sulawesi, Central
Sulawesi, East Java and West Nusatenggara (Lombok); monitoring of
five river mouths; support for water management activities in the

Seluna river basin in the Province of Central Java; and support for
repairs in the Rentang scheme in the Province of West Java, as
agreed.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1997                             4,105,000
September 15, 1997                         4,260,000
March 15, 1998                             4,425,000
September 15, 1998                         4,595,000
March 15, 1999                             4,775,000
September 15, 1999                         4,960,000
March 15, 2000                             5,150,000
September 15, 2000                         5,350,000
March 15, 2001                             5,555,000
September 15, 2001                         5,770,000
March 15, 2002                             5,995,000
September 15, 2002                         6,225,000
March 15, 2003                             6,470,000
September 15, 2003                         6,720,000
March 15, 2004                             6,975,000
September 15, 2004                         7,245,000
March 15, 2005                             7,525,000
September 15, 2005                         7,820,000
March 15, 2006                             8,120,000
September 15, 2006                         8,435,000
March 15, 2007                             8,760,000
September 15, 2007                         9,100,000
March 15, 2008                             9,450,000
September 15, 2008                         9,815,000
March 15, 2009                            10,159,000
September 15, 2009                        10,590,000
March 15, 2010                            11,000,000
September 15, 2010                        11,425,000
March 15, 2011                            11,865,000
September 15, 2011                        12,325,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years

      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
materials shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $200,000.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost $3,000,000
equivalent or less may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank; provided however, that SM works for the turnover
program and EOM estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract up to an aggregate value of $10,000,000 equivalent may
be carried out under force account procedures.

2.    Items or groups of items for equipment and materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of more than $750,000 and each contract for
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said

paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for

                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),(b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

