d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3364 IN

                  (Gas Flaring Reduction Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                  OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMMISSION

                        Dated July 11, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3364 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1991, between INTERNATION-
AL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMMISSION (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) India, acting by its President (the
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agree-
ment; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this

Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
and

      (b)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-
lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k)
is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
      arisen under which any further withdrawals under
      the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
      of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of four hundred fifty million dollars ($450,000,0-
00), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in State Bank of India on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protec-
tion against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be Decem-
ber 31, 1995 or such later date as the Bank shall
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one

percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month peri-
                  od ending on the date immediately preced-
                  ing each date specified in Section 2.06
                  of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement
                  is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                  cost, as reasonably determined by the
                  Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                  annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                  excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                  fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after
                  July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates de-
                  termined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)       "Semester" means the first six
                        months or the second six months of a
                        calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
            the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
            each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the pre-
            ceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
            Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
            shall pay interest accrued on the principal
            amount outstanding during the preceding Inter-
            est Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
            end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
            Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
            period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
            1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.

      Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the princi-
pal amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortiza-
tion schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out by
March 31, 1992: (i) a safety engineering study of
existing platforms linked to facilities that will be
constructed under the Project; and (ii) a safety audit
for its entire offshore operations and shall review the
results of said study and the audit with the Bank and
shall, thereafter, implement the recommendations.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall retain the services
of a financial advisor for mobilizing foreign exchange
resources required for the Project.

      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish and
maintain Project Implementation Units for each Part A, B,
D and E of the Project and a Project Coordinator for the
whole Project.

      Section 4.06. The Borrower shall carry out by
December 31, 1991 a review of its procurement and project
implementation organization, discuss the results of said

review with the Bank and, thereafter, implement the
recommendations arising from said review.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related state-
                  ments) and the records and accounts for
                  the Special Account for each financial
                  year audited, in accordance with appro-
                  priate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors accept-
                  able to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine
                  months after the end of each such year:
                  (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such de-
                  tail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

            (iii)       furnish to the Bank such other in-
                        formation concerning said records,
                        accounts and financial statements as
                        well as the audit thereof as the
                        Bank shall from time to time reason-
                        ably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with para-
                  graph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for
                  the financial year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account or pay-
                  ment out of the Special Account was made,
                  all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)       enable the Bank’s representatives to
                        examine such records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                  the report of such audit contains a sepa-
                  rate opinion by said auditors as to whet-
                  her the statements of expenditure submit-
                  ted during such financial year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related with-
                  drawals.

      (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this Section, the unaudited financial statements shall be
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after end
of each financial year.

      Section 5.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall: (a) not incur any debt, unless
the net revenues of the Borrower for the financial year
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of
such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding financial
year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to
be incurred;

      (b)   not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater
than 1 to 1.5; and

      (c)   maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.2.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of
                  the Borrower maturing by its terms more
                  than one year after the date on which it
                  is originally incurred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A)
                  under a loan contract or agreement or
                  other instrument providing for such debt
                  or for the modification of its terms of
                  payment on the date of such contract,
                  agreement or instrument; and (B) under a
                  guarantee agreement, on the date the
                  agreement providing for such guarantee
                  has been entered into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the differ-
                  ence between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations adjusted to
                        take account of the Borrower’s rates
                        in effect at the time of the incurr-
                        ence of debt even though they were
                        not in effect during the twelve-
                        month period to which such revenues
                        relate and net non-operating income;
                        and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations including administration,
                        adequate maintenance, taxes and
                        payments in lieu of taxes, but ex-
                        cluding provision for depreciation,
                        other non-cash operating charges and
                        interest and other charges on debt.

           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means
                  the difference between:

                        (A)   revenues from all sources other
                              than those related to opera-
                              tions; and

                        (B)   expenses, including taxes and
                              payments in lieu of taxes, in-
                              curred in the generation of

                              revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements"
                  means the aggregate amount of repayments
                  (including sinking fund payments, if any)
                  of, and interest and other charges on,
                  debt.

           (vi)   The term "equity" means the sum of the
                  total unimpaired paid-up capital, re-
                  tained earnings and reserves of the Bor-
                  rower not allocated to cover specific
                  liabilities.

          (vii)   The term "current assets" means cash, all
                  assets which could in the ordinary course
                  of business be converted into cash within
                  twelve months, including accounts receiv-
                  able, marketable securities, inventories
                  and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable
                  to operating expenses within the next
                  financial year.

         (viii)   The term "current liabilities" means all
                  liabilities which will become due and
                  payable or could under circumstances then
                  existing be called for payment within
                  twelve months, including accounts pay-
                  able, customer advances, debt service
                  requirements, taxes and payments in lieu
                  of taxes, and dividends.

           (ix)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section
                  it shall be necessary to value, in terms
                  of the currency of the Guarantor, debt
                  payable in another currency, such valua-
                  tion shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
                  which such other currency is, at the time
                  of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
                  the absence of such rate, on the basis of
                  a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Before March 31 in each of its
financial years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to
the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in Section 5.02 of this Agreement in respect of
such year and the next following financial year and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its
completion.

      (b)   If any such review shows that the Borrower
would not meet the requirements set forth in Section 5.02
of this Agreement for the Borrower’s financial years
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take
all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.

      Section 5.04. the Borrower shall exchange views with
the Bank annually on the Borrower’s investment program as
well as the implications of said program on its financial
position.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the

General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)   The Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959 of
the Guarantor, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under this Agreement; and

      (b)   A subsidiary shall have been created or
acquired by the Borrower, if such creation or acquisition
will affect materially and adversely the conduct of the
Borrower’s business or its financial condition or the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that any event specified in Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions of the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)   domestic and foreign oil companies have been
invited to participate in the fourth round of bidding for
the on-shore and off-shore parcels of acreage selected by
the Guarantor for exploration;

      (b)   the agency referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement has been established; and

      (c)   the Borrower has obtained environmental
clearance for all components of the Project.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condi-
tions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                       82987
(FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Chairman
            Oil and Natural Gas Commission
            Tel Bhavan
            Dehra Dun, U.P.
            India

            Cable address:                            Telex:

                  COMONG                          0585-206
                  Dehra Dun

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                        OIL AND NATURAL GAS COMMISSION

                        By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Process facilities
      and pipeline
      systems:

      (a) equipment and        325,000,000      100% of foreign
          materials                             expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)

      (b) erection/             90,000,000      100% of foreign
          installation                          expenditures and
          and rig hire                          90% of local
                                                expenditures

      (c) supervision           10,000,000      100%
          and specialized

          services

(2)   Consultants’               5,000,000      100%
      services and
      training

(3)   Unallocated               20,000,000
                               ___________

      TOTAL                    450,000,000
                               ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods and
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $45,000,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after October 31, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve
the management of the Bombay High reservoir; (ii)
eliminate flaring of associated gas in the Bombay High
oil field; (iii) reduce energy shortages in the Western
Region of India; and (iv) promote private participation
in Oil and Gas Sector in India.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:     SHG Process Platform

      The construction of a process platform in the
southern sector of the Bombay High oil field with a
processing capacity of 100,000 barrels (bbl) of oil per
day, 15 MMCMD of gas and 140,000 bbl of water per day,
including a 78 kilometer (km) pipeline with a diameter of
28 inches to the BPB platform at South-Bassein.

Part B:     NQP Process Platform

      The construction of a process platform in the
northern sector of the Bombay High oil field, with a
processing capacity of 60,000 bbl of oil per day, 6.8
MMCMD of gas and 30,000 bbl of water per day, including
a 30 km pipeline with a diameter of 18 inches to the BHN
- Uran gas trunk pipeline.

Part C:     Existing Platforms

      The carrying out of modifications of existing
platforms.

Part D:     Pipelines

1.    The construction of a 26"-36" gas pipeline, from the
existing process platform, ICP, in the southern sector of
the Bombay High oil field to the Heera - Uran trunk
pipeline of about 140 km.

2.    The construction of a 42" trunk gas pipeline from
South - Bassein to Hazira of about 250 km.

Part E:     Hazira Gas Terminal

      The expansion of existing Hazira gas terminal.

Part F:     Reservoir Management

      The carrying out of a program of Bombay High
reservoir management, including the hire of rigs.

Part G:     Consultant Services

      The utilization of consultants services for engi-
neering, project management and other implementation
activities.

Part H:     Studies and Training

      The carrying out of reservoir performance and
management studies, and training.

Part I:     Environmental Measures

      The implementation of a package of measures to
reduce the environmental risk and enhance the safety of
offshore operations.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                          (expressed in
dollars)*

      March 15, 1997                              8,205,000
      September 15, 1997                          8,525,000
      March 15, 1998                              8,855,000
      September 15, 1998                          9,195,000
      March 15, 1999                              9,550,000
      September 15, 1999                          9,920,000
      March 15, 2000                             10,305,000
      September 15, 2000                         10,700,000
      March 15, 2001                             11,115,000
      September 15, 2001                         11,545,000
      March 15, 2002                             11,990,000
      September 15, 2002                         12,455,000
      March 15, 2003                             12,935,000
      September 15, 2003                         13,435,000
      March 15, 2004                             13,955,000
      September 15, 2004                         14,495,000
      March 15, 2005                             15,055,000
      September 15, 2005                         15,635,000
      March 15, 2006                             16,240,000
      September 15, 2006                         16,870,000
      March 15, 2007                             17,520,000
      September 15, 2007                         18,195,000

      March 15, 2008                             18,900,000
      September 15, 2008                         19,630,000
      March 15, 2009                             20,390,000
      September 15, 2009                         21,175,000
      March 15, 2010                             21,995,000
      September 15, 2010                         22,845,000
      March 15, 2011                             23,730,000
      September 15, 2011                         24,640,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
      lents determined as of the respective dates of
      withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
      and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, the premium payable on the principal amount of any
maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percent-
age specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                       The interest rate (ex-
                                       pressed as a percentage
                                       per annum) applicable
                                       to the Loan on the day
                                       of prepayment multi-
                                       plied by:

Not more than three years                          0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                          0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                            0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                         0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                         0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                          1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:      International Competitive Bidding

      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the

procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(a) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifi- cations, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $35,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                  requests for deposits into the Special
                  Account at such intervals as the Bank
                  shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Bank the documents and other evidence
                  required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is re-
                  quested. On the basis of each such re-
                  quest, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                  and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have re-
                  quested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justi-
fied by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

