d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3284 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

                   (Port Sector Project - ODEP)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                  OFFICE D’EXPLOITATION DES PORTS

                         Dated May 9, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3284 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1991 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and OFFICE D’EXPLOITATION
DES PORTS (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      (C)   by an agreement (the Kingdom Port Sector Loan Agreement)
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to made a loan to the Guarantor to assist in the
financing of a project (the Port Sector Project - Kingdom) to

improve the economic and operational efficiencies of the port sub-
sector, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Kingdom Port
Sector Loan Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "ODEP Development Program" means the Borrower’s medium-
term program for the development and improvement of its operations,
to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05
of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Borrower’s Legislation" means, collectively: Law
(Dahir) No. 1-84-194 dated December 28, 1984, of the Guarantor,
pursuant to which the Borrower has been established and is operating
as a public enterprise; Law (Dahir) No. 1-59-271 dated April 14,
1960, of the Guarantor and Law (Dahir) No. 1-61-402 dated June 30,
1962, of the Guarantor, governing the Guarantor’s financial control
of public enterprises, including the Borrower; and Order (Arrcte
Conjoint) No. 27-86 dated January 14, 1986, of the Guarantor,
pursuant to which the Guarantor has made certain assets available to
the Borrower and defined certain other port assets;

      (c)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in para-graph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month-period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
coincides with the calendar year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31;

      (e)   "ONE" means the Guarantor’s National Electricity
Authority (Office National de l’Electricite), a public enterprise
established and operating pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law (Dahir)
No. 1-63-226 dated August 5, 1963;

      (f)   "Port Investment Program" means the Borrower’s annual
investment program, for each of its Fiscal Years, for the construc-
tion, development and rehabilitation of the infrastructure, and the
supply, erection and upgrading of equipment and facilities of the
ports at which the Borrower carries on its operations, to be
implemented in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of
this Agreement;

      (g)   "Port Tariff Structure" means the tariff structure
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to a resolution of its Board of
Directors dated July 15, 1990, for the setting of port tariffs to be
assessed and collected by the Borrower at all ports at which the
Borrower carries on its operations; and

      (h)   "Sub-project" means any sub-project included under Part
A.2 of the Project, and to be partially financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety-nine million dollars ($99,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of

      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, commercial, engineering and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out and furnish to
the Bank, not later than December 31, 1991 for the Bank’s review and
comment, the dredging study included in Part C.1 of the Project,
together with the Borrower’s recommendations based thereon; and
(ii) thereafter carry out with due diligence and efficiency, such
recommendations, based on said study, as shall have been agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment, not later than September 30 in each Fiscal Year during
which the Project is carried out, starting Fiscal Year ending
December 31, 1991, the Borrower’s proposed Port Investment Program
for the following Fiscal Year, together with a proposed plan for the
financing of said investment program; and

      (b)   thereafter, finalize said Port Investment Program,
taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon and take all
measures necessary to ensure its prompt implementation.
      Section 3.03. For purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) identify and appraise each Sub-
project based on a methodology and procedures acceptable to the
Bank; and (b) thereafter, furnish each Sub-project to the Bank for
its review and approval.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) take all measures
required on its part to ensure the conclusion, not later than
June 30, 1991, of an agreement between the Guarantor and the
Borrower, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in
respect of the Borrower’s financial, managerial, and operational
autonomy and the Guarantor’s related governmental policies and
measures; and (b) duly perform all of its obligations set forth in
said agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions thereof.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall neither commit to undertake
nor carry out any activity (other than the preparation of bidding

documents) for the procurement of goods or works in respect of the
upgrading of the berth to provide coal handling facilities at the
Port of Jorf Lasfar under Part A.2 (a) of the Project, unless and
until the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement with ONE,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing for
the recovery by the Borrower from ONE of the investment costs,
operating expenses and other financial charges in respect of the
upgrading and operation of said berth.

      Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, commercial, engineering and environmental practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, commercial, engineering and environmental practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower:

      (a)   shall take all action required on its part to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its operations; and

      (b)   except in the ordinary course of its business, shall
not, without the Bank’s prior consent, sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which are
required for the efficient conduct of its operations or the carrying
out of the Project.

      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall carry out the ODEP Develop-
ment Program with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, economic and engineering
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required therefor.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including, without
limitation, separate accounts reflecting the operations, resources
and expenditures of the Borrower in respect of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal
                  Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                  its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for each of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1989, an annual return of not
less than 7% of the average current net value of the Borrower’s
fixed assets in operation.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such
year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the
Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, but without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its port
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  the Borrower’s net operating income for the
                  Fiscal Year in question by one half of the sum of
                  the current net value of the Borrower’s fixed
                  assets in operation at the beginning and at the
                  end of that Fiscal Year.

           (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                  operating revenues less total operating expenses.

          (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means reve-
                  nues from all sources related to operations.

           (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including admin-
                  istration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
                  ments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depre-
                  ciation on a straight-line basis at rates accept-
                  able to the Bank, but excluding interest and
                  other charges on debt.

            (v)   The term "current net value of the Borrower’s
                  fixed assets in operation" means the gross value
                  of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation less
                  the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
                  from time to time in accordance with sound and
                  consistently maintained methods of valuation
                  satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on
all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources relat-
                        ed to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions including administration, adequate
                        maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, but excluding provision for depreci-
                        ation, other non-cash operating charges and
                        interest and other charges on debt.

           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in sub-paragraph (A) of this
                        sub-paragraph (iv).

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
                  payments, if any) of, and interest and other

                  charges on, debt.

           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                  months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                  question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                  accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                  notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                  provided that no event has occurred since such
                  notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material ad-
                  verse effect on the financial condition or future
                  operating results of the Borrower.

          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er currency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accep-
                  table to the Bank.

      Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure the application not later than September 30, 1991 of its
Port Tariff Structure in respect of all container and Ro-Ro traffic
through the ports in which the Borrower carries on its operations.

      Section 5.05. The provisions of Sections 5.02 and 5.04 of the
Loan Agreement dated May 9, 1986 between the Bank and the Borrower
for a Port Project: The Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia (Loan No.
2657-MOR) are hereby amended to read as set forth in Sections 5.02
and 5.03, respectively, of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower’s Legislation or any other law, decree or
resolution of the Guarantor shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the organization, powers, financial condition or opera-
tions of the Borrower, or the ability of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Kingdom Port Sector Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Director of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Office d’Exploitation des Ports
            4 rue Moussa Ibnou Nouceir
            Casablanca
            Kingdom of Morocco

                                          Telex:

                                             28732

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                  OFFICE D’EXPLOITATION DES PORTS

                  By /s/ Mohammed Belkhayat
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works under             36,100,000 )
    Part A.1                           )
    of the Project                     )
                                       )        64%
(2) Works under             12,400,000 )
    Part A.2 of the                    )
    Project                            )

(3) Goods for               23,300,000          100% of foreign
    Parts A.2,                                  expenditures,
    B.1 and B.3                                 100% of local
    of the                                      expenditures
    Project                                     (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Consultants’             5,900,000          100%
    services and
    training

(5) Unallocated             21,300,000
                            __________

         TOTAL              99,000,000
                            ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding, the equivalent of five million
dollars ($5,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1) and
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after July 31, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the
operational efficiency of the ports at which the Borrower carries on
its operations, so as to assist the Borrower in adapting its
operations to the growth and changing structure of foreign trade;
and (ii) assist the Borrower in strengthening its institutional
capabilities and financial operations and increasing the recovery of
infrastructure costs through, among other things, appropriate
adjustments to its port tariffs.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

1.    Construction of a container terminal at the Port of
Casablanca;

2.    Carrying out of selected priority Sub-projects under the
Borrower’s Port Investment Program, including, inter alia: (a)
upgrading of a berth to provide coal handling facilities at the Port
of Jorf Lasfar and provision of coal unloading equipment required
therefor; and (b) rehabilitation and upgrading of existing Ro-Ro
terminal facilities at the Port of Tangiers; and

3.    Carrying out of other selected activities under the Borrower’s
Port Investment Program, including, inter alia: (a) construction of
a two-lane bridge at Gate Four at the Port of Casablanca; (b)
carrying out of pacing works at the Port of Agadir; (c) carrying out
of infrastructure works at the Port of Safi; (d) rehabilitation and
upgrading of fishing port facilities at the Ports of Agadir, Nador,
Tangiers and Casablanca; (e) development of pleasure craft facili-
ties at the Port of Agadir; and (f) development of port industrial
sites at the Port of Jorf Lasfar.

Part B:

Part C:

1.    Acquisition and utilization of materials and equipment
required to carry out Part A.1 of this Schedule including, inter
alia: (a) straddle carriers; (b) container gantry cranes; and (c)
tractor-trailer units;

2.    Acquisition and utilization of tugboats and conventional cargo
handling equipment; and

3.    Acquisition and utilization of marine security equipment, data
processing equipment and related materials to improve communications
and management information systems.

1.    Carrying out of a study to strengthen the Borrower’s main-
tenance dredging operations; preparation of a telecommunications
master plan for the Borrower; and improvement of the Borrower’s
management information system including internal audit, cost
accounting, personnel administration and data processing; and

2.    Carrying out of a training program, including in-service
training, fellowships, seminars and provision of training aids.

                        *     *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

September 15, 1996                                 1,805,000
March 15, 1997                                     1,875,000
September 15, 1997                                 1,950,000
March 15, 1998                                     2,025,000
September 15, 1998                                 2,100,000
March 15, 1999                                     2,185,000
September 15, 1999                                 2,270,000
March 15, 2000                                     2,355,000
September 15, 2000                                 2,445,000
March 15, 2001                                     2,540,000
September 15, 2001                                 2,640,000
March 15, 2002                                     2,740,000
September 15, 2002                                 2,845,000
March 15, 2003                                     2,955,000
September 15, 2003                                 3,070,000

March 15, 2004                                     3,190,000
September 15, 2004                                 3,310,000
March 15, 2005                                     3,440,000
September 15, 2005                                 3,575,000
March 15, 2006                                     3,710,000
September 15, 2006                                 3,855,000
March 15, 2007                                     4,005,000
September 15, 2007                                 4,155,000
March 15, 2008                                     4,320,000
September 15, 2008                                 4,485,000
March 15, 2009                                     4,655,000
September 15, 2009                                 4,835,000
March 15, 2010                                     5,025,000
September 15, 2010                                 5,220,000
March 15, 2011                                     5,420,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                 1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the

"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Limited international bidding:

      Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one
million dollars ($1,000,000) per contract, but more than the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at
least five qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Local competitive bidding:

      Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000),
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

3.    Shopping

      Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million dollars
($1,000,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three (3) suppliers from at least two (2) different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decision

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the first contract for civil works or
goods awarded under the procedures referred to in Parts A and C
hereof, irrespective of the estimated value thereof, and with
respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more, and each
contract for goods estimated to cost six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000) or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

