d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3338 POL

            (Employment Promotion and Services Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 3, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3338 POL
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOLSP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy, or any successor thereof;

      (b)   "Project Operations Manual" means the Project Operations
Manual of the Borrower dated May 3, 1991, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;

      (c)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
under Part E (2) (c) of the Project out of the proceeds of the Loan;
and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Poland on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower

shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and employment development
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Labor and Social Policy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
            u1. NOWOGRODZKA 1/3
            00-513 Warszawa
            Republic of Poland

                                           Telex:

                                             814710 PL
      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                         By /s/ Kazimierz Dziewanowski
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods for Parts A         76,500,000        100% of foreign
    through E (1) and                           expenditures,
    (2) (a), (b) and                            100% of local
    (c) of the Project                          expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(2) Consultants’              13,500,000        100% of local
    services and                                expenditures for
    training for                                services of con-
    Parts A through                             sultants domiciled
    E (1) and (2) (a),                          within the terri-
    (b) and (c) of                              tory of the Bor-
    the Project                                 rower and for
                                                training therein
                                                and 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for services
                                                of other consul-
                                                tants and for
                                                training outside
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Sub-loans                  1,000,000        80%
    under Part
    E (2) (d) of
    the Project

(4) Unallocated                9,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after January 31, 1991.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the project are to assist in the carrying
out of programs to promote employment, investment and economic
growth through improved labor force development.

      The project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Management Infrastructure

      Carrying out of programs to improve the administration and
coverage of employment and social welfare programs including:

      (1)   the development and introduction of an employment
management information system to facilitate better targeting and
evaluation of employment programs and annual planning and financing
of such programs at the local level;

      (2)   the development and implementation of a strategy to
automate regional and local labor and social welfare offices,
including a related plan to support automation and sharing of
information among labor and social welfare offices at the local,
regional and national levels; and

      (3)   the development and implementation of a strategy to
refine the existing labor market information system, including
improving enterprise and household surveys and information analysis
for use by institutions and individuals.

Part B:     Income Support

      Carrying out of programs to improve the efficiency of income
support programs, including:

      (1)   the development and implementation of policy and
operational guidelines for means testing to improve consistency and
fairness in the delivery of social welfare benefits on the basis of
uniform criteria to be applied by social welfare offices in
determining the level of benefits and services to individual
claimants;

      (2)   a program to train management and staff in the
development and delivery of social services;

      (3)   a program to design and equip new model social welfare
offices and upgrade the facilities of existing social welfare
offices; and

      (4)   the development of an unemployment benefits system to be
administered and financed independently of employment programs and
coordinated with other income support programs.

Part C:     Employment Services

      Carrying out of programs to expand and improve available
employment services programs, including:

      (1)   the development, testing and implementation of
industrial adjustment services to provide for early and intensive
assistance to enterprises and workers within communities
experiencing mass layoffs to alleviate the adverse impact of such
layoffs and facilitate the reemployment of displaced workers;

      (2)   the development and implementation of procedures and
techniques for improving occupational counseling, including: (a)
carrying out of proper assessment of clients’ aptitudes and
interests, (b) establishment of national information bases on
occupational and related educational and training opportunities, (c)
design of career information systems to integrate the assessment

procedures with occupational and educational data and to facilitate
use of this by individual clients, and (d) carrying out of job
search and job development programs;

      (3)   a program to upgrade the facilities of labor offices to
improve service delivery; and

      (4)   a program to provide short and long-term training for
job counsellors.

Part D:     Adult Training

      Carrying out of programs to expand and improve training of
unemployed adults, including:

      (1)   the development of national guidelines and procedures,
including: (a) guidelines and performance criteria to be used by
local labor offices in awarding contracts to local training
institutions to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of
training provided through such institutions; and (b) model programs
and procedures to be used by local training institutions for
marketing and implementing customized training programs in support
of new and existing enterprises; and

      (2)   the design and carrying out of a strategy to assist
local training institutions to develop, upgrade and implement basic
education, vocational and technical, mobile, junior and middle
management and foreign language training programs to the unemployed
to facilitate their reentry into the labor force.

Part E:     Micro-Enterprise Development

      The carrying out of programs to promote micro-enterprise
development by the unemployed, including;

      (1)   the development and implementation of strategies to
strengthen local institutional capabilities to promote micro-
enterprise development, including (a) design of a single process to
be applied by the staff of local labor offices in (i) conducting
initial screening of applicants for referral to local small business
assistance organization for entrepreneurial training and to local
enterprise development funds for loans, and (ii) developing a model
contract for utilization by local labor offices in contracting with
such local organizations and funds for administration of such
training and to local enterprises development funds for loans; (b)
development and delivery, through small enterprises assistance
organizations, of training to enhance the ability of local agencies
to promote micro-enterprise development; and (c) the establishment
of a central database for the monitoring and evaluation of the
activities of MOLSP’s programs for the financing of micro-enterprise
development; and

      (2)   the development and implementation of strategies to
strengthen local institutions providing assistance to the unemployed
in the development of micro-enterprises, including the strengthening
of (a) about 10 small business assistance centers, (b) about 10
micro-enterprise incubator facilities to provide affordable space,
technical and other assistance on a shared basis to micro-
enterprises; (c) about 12 local enterprise development funds; and

     (d)  the financing, through the provision of loans, including Sub-
loans, by local enterprise development funds to the unemployed to
establish micro-enterprises.
                               *  *  *

      The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal

      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1

      beginning December 1, 1996
      through December 1, 2007             4,165,000

On June 1, 2008                            4,205,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower’s
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods for Parts A through E (1) and (2) (a), (b) and (c) of
the Project:

      (a)   estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank;

      (b)   estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and

      (c)   which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature, may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Goods for Part E (2) (d) of the Project shall be purchased in
accordance with normal commercial practices at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes

of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Overall Project Implementation

(1)   Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Project
shall be assigned by the Borrower to MOLSP, and for this purpose and
for the purpose of facilitating the efficient carrying out by MOLSP
of its other programs and activities the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) MOLSP will carry out the Project in accordance with the
requirements and other details set forth or referred to in the
Project Operations Manual; (b) MOLSP will be provided at all times
with such staff and other resources as are adequate, in the opinion
of the Borrower and the Bank, to enable MOLSP properly to carry out
its responsibility under the Project; and (c) MOLSP shall develop
and implement, by December 31, 1991, in consultation with the
committee referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of Part B of this Schedule,
a framework, including job-titles, for a new national occupational
classification system, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
for use in all MOLSP programs.

(2)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain, within MOLSP, a
Project Coordination Unit, with staff and other resources and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to
coordinate and supervise the carrying out of the Project and the
procurement of the goods and services thereunder.

(3)   In order to: (a) assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants with
qualifications and experience, and, in accordance with the terms of
reference set forth in the Project Operations Manual, in accordance
with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) ensure that
qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, including for
the units referred to in paragraph B (1), D (1), E and F (1) of this
Schedule, are made available, by December 31, 1991, and thereafter
maintained as required for the carrying out of the Project and
thereafter for sustaining the objectives thereof.

(4)   The Borrower shall carry out management and staff training,
including fellowship training, under the Project in accordance with
terms of reference, and pursuant to a time schedule, satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.

(5)   In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement
and the requirements of the Project Operations Manual, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, by November 30 of each year,
a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
twelve-month period preceding the date of such report and the
resources required and the measures recommended to ensure the proper
carrying out of the Project during the twelve-month period after the
date of such report. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to review with the Borrower the conclusions and
recommendations of each such report, and, thereafter, take all such
measures, including allocation of resources, as, in the opinion of
the Bank, shall be required to ensure the proper carrying out of the
Project during such period.

B.    Part A of the Project

(1)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain, within MOLSP, a
management information system and automation unit, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to supervise
the development and implementation of the strategy under Part A (2)
of the Project.

(2)   In order to achieve the objectives of Part A (1) of the
Project, the Borrower shall ensure that a draft law, containing
suitable amendments to the existing legal framework for employment
programs and designed to improve cost-effectiveness, targeting and
financing of such programs provided at the local level, based on the
policy and operational guidelines to be developed under said Part A

(1), and satisfactory to MOLSP and the Bank, shall be finalized and
submitted, by December 31, 1992, to the Borrower’s Parliament (Sejm)
for enactment.

(3)   The Borrower shall ensure that MOLSP shall prepare, in
consultation with the other departments and agencies of the Borrower
involved in the automation of operations, and furnish to the Bank
for its review and comments, by June 30, 1992, MOLSP’s proposed plan
under Part A (2) of the Project, and, thereafter, finalize and carry
out the same, taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.

(4)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, between MOLSP and the Borrower’s Central
Statistics Office (GUS) pursuant to which GUS shall undertake
responsibility for the development and implementation of the system
under Part A (3) of the Project, with the assistance and overall
policy guidance of MOLSP through the committee referred to in
subparagraph (b) hereof. For this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure
that: (a) GUS shall continue to appoint a qualified staff member
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to coordinate its
activities thereunder; and (b) an occupational information
coordinating committee, chaired by a representative of MOLSP and
with representatives of other departments and agencies of the
Borrower and of institutions, enterprises and other entities
involved in job counseling, shall continue to be maintained, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to provide overall
policy guidance to GUS in the carrying out of said Part A (3).

C.    Part B of the Project

      The Borrower shall ensure that: (1) the social welfare offices
to be established or upgraded under Part B (3) of the Project shall
be selected by MOLSP on the basis of criteria acceptable to the
Bank; and (2) draft legislation providing for the benefits and
financing of unemployment, social welfare and related income support
systems, based on the system to be designed under Part B (4) of the
Project and satisfactory to MOLSP and the Bank, shall be finalized
and submitted, by December 31, 1992, to the Borrower’s Parliament
(Sejm) for enactment.

D.    Part C of the Project

      The Borrower shall continue to maintain: (1) an Employment
Services Unit within MOLSP, with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank, to be responsible for the administration
and execution of Part C of the Project; and (2) a task force for the
development of career information for occupational counselors, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, within
the committee referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of Part B of this
Schedule, with representatives of employers, employees, higher
education institutions, training institutions and labor market
statisticians, to assist MOLSP in the carrying out of the
improvement of occupational counseling under Part C (2) of the
Project.

E.   Part D of the Project

      Part D of the Project will be carried out by MOLSP through the
Training Unit within MOLSP’s Department of Employment and for this
purpose the Borrower shall ensure that said Unit shall apply
criteria, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, in the
selection of the localities to benefit under said Part D and the
local training institutions to carry out the training of unemployed
workers within said localities.

F.    Part E of the Project

(1)   In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall continue to maintain a Micro-Enterprise
Unit within MOLSP’s Department of Employment, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to be
responsible for the administration and execution of Part E of the

Project.

(2)   The Borrower shall ensure that said Unit shall apply, and
ensure the application by participating labor offices of, criteria,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, in the selection of local
agencies to participate in the carrying out of Part E of the
Project.

(3)   The Borrower shall maintain measures to ensure that funds are
made available to participating enterprise development funds under
subpart (2) (d) of said Part E and that, thereafter, such funds
shall make Sub-loans thereunder in accordance with the procedures
and terms and conditions set forth in the Project Operations Manual.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan

Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

