d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3295 MOR

            (Rural Basic Education Development Project)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated September 6, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3295 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1991, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Bank (AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to about $45,000,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AfDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for the
development of the education sector;

      (b)   "basic education" means education provided by the
Borrower’s schools in the first through ninth grades of schooling;

      (c)   "upper basic education" means education provided by the
Borrower’s schools in the seventh through ninth grades of schooling;

      (d)   "secondary education" means education provided by the
Borrower’s schools in the tenth through twelfth grades of schooling;

      (e)   "Upper Basic Education Development Program" means the
Borrower’s program to develop the upper basic education sub-sector
in both rural and urban areas during the period from the Borrower’s
fiscal year 1991 through its fiscal year 1995, so as to expand
access to such education, improve the effectiveness of the provision
of such education and improve the quality thereof, as said program
may be revised from time to time in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred forty-five million dollars ($145,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a currency acceptable to the Bank a special
deposit account in a financial institution and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE
with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Upper
Basic Education Development Program and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, economic, engineering and educational
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in

                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure that the Upper
Basic Education Development Program shall be carried out with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic, engineering and educational
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required therefor;

      (b)   maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the carrying out of the Upper Basic Education Development
Program;

      (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than August 31
of each of its fiscal years during the execution of the Upper Basic
Education Development Program, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the conclusions and
recomendations indicated by the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed during the preceding academic year pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section, including any proposed revisions to be
introduced into the Upper Basic Education Development Program; and
thereafter, promptly introduce such revisions into the Upper Basic
Education Development Program as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:

      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                  Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                  have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                  or

           (ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
AfDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministere des Finances
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  Ministere Finances        36715
                  Rabat, Morocco            36936 or
                                            36147

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                  By /s/ Mohammed Belkhayat Zougari

                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works               96,500,000        80%

(2) Goods                     31,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Consultants’               1,500,000        100%
    services and
    overseas
    fellowships

(4) Scholarships               2,000,000        50%
    for room and
    board

(5) Unallocated               14,000,000
                             ___________

    TOTAL                    145,000,000
                             ===========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
expanding access to upper basic education throughout the rural areas
of the Borrower’s territory and in improving the effectiveness of
the delivery of such education throughout the Borrower’s territory
through enhancing the quality of such education.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Carrying out of a program to improve the access by the
Borrower’s rural populations to upper basic education, consisting
of:

      (1)   Construction, rehabilitation, equipping, furnishing and
staffing of schools, including canteens and dormitories, to serve
rural communities, on the basis of plans designed to ensure the
proximity of the schools to such populations and a suitable number
and size of classrooms for the community served; and provision of
educational supplies to such schools;

      (2)   Provision of scholarships for room and board, and
allocation of boarding facilities, on the basis of criteria designed
to provide equal access by girls and boys to the educational
programs offered by the schools included in Part A (1) of this
Schedule; and

      (3)   Development and implementation of a program to provide
the poorest students receiving upper basic education with access to
textbooks required for their courses of study.

Part B:

      (1)   Carrying out of programs to strengthen the MOE’s
institutional capabilities in the following areas:

      (a)   development of curricula and textbooks for upper basic
            and secondary education programs, through the: (i)
            provision of suitably qualified staff to the MOE, to be
            responsible for curriculum development and textbook
            preparation; (ii) carrying out of training programs to
            strengthen the professional skills of MOE staff involved
            in curriculum development and textbook preparation;
            (iii) renovation of office facilities for the staff
            referred to in this paragraph (a); and (iv) provision of
            equipment and publications;

      (b)   monitoring and evaluation of the levels of achievement
            attained by students in basic education programs
            throughout the Borrower’s territory, through the
            staffing, equipping and operation, under appropriate
            policies and procedures, of a unit within the Planning
            Directorate of the MOE to be responsible for carrying
            out such monitoring and evaluation activities and
            provision of technical assistance, overseas fellowships
            and training to the staff of said unit; and

      (c)   preparation, maintenance and distribution of
            instructional materials, through the provision of
            training to staff of the MOE responsible for such
            activities and of equipment required for carrying out
            such activities.

      (2)   Development and implementation of in-service training
programs to strengthen the professional skills of teachers of upper
basic and secondary education programs.

      (3)   Carrying out of a two-phased study to evaluate the
measures included in the Project aimed at increasing attendance of
rural children in schools.

      (4)   Provision of vehicles to staff of the MOE responsible
for supervision of school teachers as required to enable such staff
to carry out their supervision functions properly.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1996                                 2,645,000
May 1, 1997                                      2,745,000
November 1, 1997                                 2,855,000
May 1, 1998                                      2,965,000
November 1, 1998                                 3,075,000
May 1, 1999                                      3,195,000
November 1, 1999                                 3,320,000
May 1, 2000                                      3,450,000
November 1, 2000                                 3,580,000
May 1, 2001                                      3,720,000
November 1, 2001                                 3,865,000
May 1, 2002                                      4,015,000
November 1, 2002                                 4,170,000
May 1, 2003                                      4,330,000
November 1, 2003                                 4,495,000
May 1, 2004                                      4,670,000
November 1, 2004                                 4,850,000
May 1, 2005                                      5,040,000
November 1, 2005                                 5,235,000
May 1, 2006                                      5,435,000
November 1, 2006                                 5,645,000
May 1, 2007                                      5,865,000
November 1, 2007                                 6,090,000
May 1, 2008                                      6,325,000
November 1, 2008                                 6,570,000
May 1, 2009                                      6,825,000
November 1, 2009                                 7,090,000
May 1, 2010                                      7,360,000
November 1, 2010                                 7,645,000
May 1, 2011                                      7,930,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years

      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Local Competitive Bidding.

1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$136,900,000, and furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $7,700,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Local Shopping.

2.    Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Direct Contracting.

3.    Contracts for textbooks and publications may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for goods to be
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part A hereof,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more and (ii) the
first contract for works, regardless of the cost thereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the

Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

 Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services required for the carrying out of the
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants:
(A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall establish, prior to the issuance of
requests for submissions of bids on the construction of any school
included in Part A (1) of the Project, a regional technical unit
with terms of reference, staffing and other resources satisfactory
to the Bank, to be responsible for supervision of the construction
works for such school. Without limitation on the foregoing, the
Borrower shall at all times assign to such units at least one
architect, one engineer, and one support staff member, all suitably
qualified and experienced for their respective tasks.

2.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
the first phase of the study, included in Part B (3) of the Project,
shall be completed and furnished to the Bank not later than December
31, 1992 and the second phase of said study shall be completed and
furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 1995.

3.    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later
than December 31, 1991, the program, included in Part A (3) of the
Project, to provide the poorest students with access to textbooks;
offer the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said program; and thereafter, promptly carry out said
program, taking into account the views of the Bank thereon.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal

the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

