d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3357 ME

             (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan II)

                              between

                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 26, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3357 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA,
S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 29,
1991, from the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) describing a
program of actions (taken and to be taken), objectives and policies
designed to promote greater efficiency and higher productivity in
the Guarantor’s agricultural and agro-industrial sectors, reduce
poverty and malnutrition and improve the cost-effectiveness of
government expenditures in food and nutrition programs (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
the financing of imports required during such execution;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Guarantor by making the Loan to the Borrower in two tranches (each
of $200,000,000) (each tranche referred to hereinafter as "tranche")

as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the
      Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank, the Borrower and the
      Guarantor shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
      such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
      request, on the execution of the Project the Program referred
      to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by
      the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
      Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
      Loan.";

      (b)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (c)   in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Guarantor,
beginning in January 1 of each year;

      (b)   "Food and Nutrition Program" means the Guarantor’s
overall food and nutrition program (Programa Nutricional y
Alimentario), which includes, inter alia, the following individual
programs: 1. Nutrition and Health (Programa de Nutricion y Salud) as
such program is described in the document dated May 6, 1991, as
attached to the Borrower’s letter to the Bank dated May 22, 1991; 2.
Tortibonos Tortivales as such program is described in the document
dated May 7, 1991, as attached to the Borrower’s letter to the Bank
dated May 22, 1991 (hereinafter Tortivales); 3. Social Supply of
Milk (Abasto Social de Leche) as such program is described in the
document dated May 7, 1991, as attached to the Borrower’s letter to
the Bank dated May 22, 1991, (hereinafter Abasto Social); and 4. Any
other program which is being carried out or may be carried out by
the Guarantor, and which program, in its content and purposes,
conforms with the criteria set forth in the Program, including the
Programa de Alimentacion, Nutricion y Salud as defined in the
Program; and "Selected Food and Nutrition Program" means
collectively: Tortivales, Abasto Social, and the Pilot Project (as
hereinafter defined);

      (c)   "MES" means the Guarantor’s system, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the monitoring and evaluation of the Food and Nutrition
Program;

      (d)   "MES Implementation Plan" means the Guarantor’s plan
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the MES as such
plan is contained in the document dated May 22, 1991, as attached to

the Borrower’s letter to the Bank dated May 22, 1991;

      (e)   "Pilot Project" means the project, satisfactory to the
Bank, designed to (a) provide food assistance to approximately
45,000 rural families in the Guarantor’s States of Nuevo Leon,
Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosi and Mexico; and (b) test alternative
methods for operating a nutrition and health program, as such
project is described in the document of the Guarantor entitled
Proyecto Piloto de Nutricion, Alimentacion y Salud dated January
1991;

      (f)   "Production Targets Action Plan" means the Guarantor’s
plan of action to be submitted to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.05
of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (g)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);

      (h)   "CONASUPO" means the Guarantor’s Compania Nacional de
Subsistencias Populares, the Guarantor’s Food Marketing Agency;

      (i)   "PRONASE" means the Guarantor’s Productora Nacional de
Semillas, the Guarantor’s National Seed Production Agency; and

      (j)   "INIFAP" means the Guarantor’s Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Forestales Agricolas y Pecuarias, the Guarantor’s
National Institute of Forestry and Agricultural Research.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,

                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

          Transfer of the Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor
providing, inter alia: (a) for the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) for the transfer by the Guarantor to
the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay
to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on
the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such
arrangements.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Bank, jointly with the
Guarantor, shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program,
the Project and the actions specified in the Schedule to the
Guarantee Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;

           (ii)   without limitation or restriction to paragraph 8
                  of the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement,
                  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than one hundred and twenty
                  (120) days after the last withdrawal from the
                  Loan Account has been made under each tranche, a
                  certified copy of the report of the respective
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the period in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in each of the audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during the period covered
                  by the audit, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement shall have been executed;

      (b)   that the Guarantor has completed and furnished to the
Bank the study referred to in Part B.5 of the Project;

      (c)   that the Guarantor has issued a decree, satisfactory to
the Bank, to modify the current cane payment arrangements for
purposes of improving efficiency in sugar milling and cane
production;

      (d)   that the Guarantor has eliminated, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, all export permits for wheat, sorghum,
feedstuffs, soybean, barley, copra, cartamo, cartamo oil, cotton-
seed, tobacco and eggs; and

      (e)   that the Guarantor has eliminated, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, all export taxes for raw cotton, cotton
fiber and swine for breeding.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been executed and
delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and are legally binding
upon them in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date September 26, 1991 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            11a Piso
            Torre Sur
            C.P. 01020, Mexico D.F.
            Mexico

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 303-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City

                                          Fax:

                                            548-5191

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for

             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico City, Mexico, as of the
day and year first above written.

                  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                  By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villareal
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                  Latin America and the Caribbean

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of import goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                  not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and associated
                                  materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                  stones, unworked or worked

   718             718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts

                                  thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals (except
                                  watches and watch cases) and
                                  goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold
                                  ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;

      (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;

      (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and

      (f)   expenditures for crude oil or foodstuffs.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $200,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Guarantor in the carrying out of the
Program; (b) that the actions described in the Schedule to the
Guarantee Agreement have been taken in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the macroeconomic policy
framework of the Guarantor is consistent with the objectives of the
Program.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is not consistent
with the objectives of the Program or that the progress achieved in
carrying out the program or actions taken pursuant to the Schedule
to the Guarantee Agreement are not satisfactory and, within 90 days
after such notice, the Guarantor shall not have achieved progress,
in carrying out the Program, or taken action, in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank, or the macroeconomic policy framework remains
not consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                        Project Description

      The objective of the Project is to support the implementation
of the Guarantor’s Program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Imports

      The financing of general imports in support of the Program.

Part B:     Studies

      The carrying out of studies on:

1.    the edible beans market to define price and trade policy;

2.    pesticides to (i) diagnose current usage, (ii) assess current
legal and institutional framework, (iii) streamline procedures to
promote competition between producers and distributors, and (iv)
establish guidelines to reach minimum standards on health,
environmental issues and quality control enforcement;

3.    the sugar sector to determine the set of policies to be
applied to the sector;

4.    the regulation, organization and procedures of the system of
plant protection and animal health and the elaboration of a proposal
to modernize the system and streamline its procedures;

5.    the identification of the regulatory framework and processes
under which SARH and other of the Guarantor’s departments, agencies
and entities establish, coordinate and enforce crop production
targets and the elaboration of proposals to eliminate and dismantle
such regulatory framework and processes; and

6.    the design of a system to (a) eliminate CONASUPO’s monopoly on
imports of powder milk and (b) allocate import permits of powder
milk in a transparent, efficient and competitive basis.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning February 15, 1997
      through   February 15, 2008          16,665,000

      and on August 15, 2008               16,705,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice.

3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of

this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

