d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3349 IND

                   (Power Transmission Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 8, 1991

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3349 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 8, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (PLN) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PLN the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PLN;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN)
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

      (c)   "Governing Laws" means Law No. 19 of 1960, Law No. 9 of
1969, and Law No. 15 of 1985, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983,
Government Regulation No. 28 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 10
of 1989 and Government Regulation No. 17 of 1990, and any other
legal provisions in force at the time of this Agreement governing
the organization and operations of PLN, as any of them may be
amended or supplemented from time to time.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred seventy-five million dollars
($275,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,

the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause PLN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of PLN therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable PLN to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
PLN under a subsidiary loan agreement entered into between the
Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by PLN
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s investment
plan for the next fiscal year before its final approval by the
Borrower, in order to enable the Bank to express its views on the
priorities assigned to the investments included under such plan and
on the balance among the generation, transmission and distribution
of electric power likely to result from such investments; and

      (b)   review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s development
plan and associated financial forecast and financing plan, and take
appropriate measures to facilitate the access of PLN to all possible
sources of required finance.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   PLN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PLN will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of PLN to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PLN or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or
by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PLN; and

      (b)   that all necessary steps have been taken to ensure
compliance with the obligations of Section 4.06 (a) of the Project
Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance with
its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY               44319 DJMLN IA
                   Jakarta                   45799 DEPKEU IA

     For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development

            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
    materials under:                            expenditures,
                                                100% of local
    (a) Parts A (i)                             expenditures
    through A (vi)           205,000,000        (ex-factory
    of the Project                              cost) and 65%
                                                of local
    (b) Part A (vii)                            expenditures for
    of the Project            15,000,000        other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants’              25,000,000        85%
    services

(3)  Unallocated              30,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL               275,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s
efforts to develop its power sector to provide reliable and
efficient supply of electric power in the Java-Bali electricity
system, inter alia, through: (a) ensuring adequate investments in
power transmission facilities to expand, strengthen and upgrade such
electricity transmission system to supply electricity to new
consumers, and meet increases in electricity demand arising from
existing and new consumers; (b) assisting in the preparation of
future power generation projects and carry out a study for the long-
term development of electricity transmission network; (c) improving
PLN’s capability in long-term planning of electricity transmission
systems; and (d) promoting measures to strengthen PLN’s financial
performance, including PLN gradually bearing the full cost of Bank
funds onlent by the Borrower.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Transmission

      Expand, strengthen and upgrade the facilities of the Java-Bali
electricity transmission system, including:

            (i)    extension of about 41 existing substations of
                   150 kV and 70 kV;

            (ii)   construction of about 18 new substations of 150
                   kV;

            (iii)  installation of reactive power compensation
                   equipment in about 29 substations;

            (iv)   acquisition of about two mobile substations,
                   each of 150/20 kV;

            (v)    reconductoring of about 6 kilometers of 70 kV
                   and about 51 kilometers of 150 kV transmission
                   lines;

            (vi)   construction of about 241 kilometers of 150 kV
                   of overhead and underground transmission lines;
                   and

            (vii)  construction of new substations and transmission
                   lines for supplying electricity to industrial
                   consumers at 150 kV.

Part B:     Technical Assistance

      Provision of technical assistance, inter alia, for:

            (i)    engineering, design and construction supervision
                   of transmission facilities under Part A of the
                   Project;

            (ii)   engineering, design and construction supervision
                   of additional generating units at the Suralaya
                   coal-fired thermal power station located in West
                   Java;

            (iii)  carrying out a site selection and feasibility
                   study for a new thermal power plant in West
                   Java; and

            (iv)   carrying out a study for the long-term develop-
                   ment of the Java-Bali electricity transmission
                   system.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 1997                                 5,015,000
July 15, 1997                                    5,210,000
January 15, 1998                                 5,410,000
July 15, 1998                                    5,620,000
January 15, 1999                                 5,835,000
July 15, 1999                                    6,060,000
January 15, 2000                                 6,295,000
July 15, 2000                                    6,540,000
January 15, 2001                                 6,790,000
July 15, 2001                                    7,055,000
January 15, 2002                                 7,325,000
July 15, 2002                                    7,610,000
January 15, 2003                                 7,905,000
July 15, 2003                                    8,210,000
January 15, 2004                                 8,530,000
July 15, 2004                                    8,855,000
January 15, 2005                                 9,200,000
July 15, 2005                                    9,555,000
January 15, 2006                                 9,925,000
July 15, 2006                                   10,310,000
January 15, 2007                                10,705,000
July 15, 2007                                   11,120,000
January 15, 2008                                11,550,000
July 15, 2008                                   11,995,000
January 15, 2009                                12,460,000
July 15, 2009                                   12,940,000
January 15, 2010                                13,440,000
July 15, 2010                                   13,960,000
January 15, 2011                                14,500,000
July 15, 2011                                   15,075,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                        Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed

                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

