d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3293 ES

                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                      REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated March 12, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3293 ES

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 12, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated January 11,
1991, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution; and

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in three Tranches (as hereinafter
defined) as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan."; and

      (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BH" means the Banco Hipotecario de El Salvador, the
Mortgage Bank of the Borrower;

      (b)   "BFA" means the Banco de Fomento Agropecuario, the
Agricultural Development Bank of the Borrower;

      (c)   "C" and "Colones" mean a unit of the currency of the
Borrower;

      (d)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de Reserva de El
Salvador, the Central Bank of the Borrower;

      (e)   "Comprehensive Program Document" or "CPD" means the
document presented to the Bank by the Borrower, dated December 17,
1990, entitled "Documentos presentados por el Gobierno de El Sal-
vador al Banco Mundial";

      (f)   "Consolidated Budget" means the Borrower’s ordinary and
extraordinary budgets;

      (g)   "First Tranche" means a Tranche (as such term is
hereinafter defined) not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000,000 to
be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;

      (h)   "INAZUCAR" means the Instituto Nacional del Azucar, the
National Sugar Institute of the Borrower;

      (i)   "INCAFE" means the Instituto Nacional del Cafe, the
National Coffee Institute of the Borrower;

      (j)   "IRA" means the Instituto Regulador de Abastecimientos,
the Food Supply Regulating Institute of the Borrower;

      (k)   "Legislative Assembly" means the legislative organ of
the Borrower;
      (l)   "Ministerio de Hacienda" means the Borrower’s Ministry
of Finance;

      (m)   "Nationalized Banks" means the Borrower’s following
banks: Banco Cuscatlan; Banco Agricola Comercial; Banco de Comercio;
Banco Salvadoreno; Banco de Desarrollo e Inversion; Banco
Financiero; Banco Capitalizador; Banco Mercantil; and Banco de
Credito Popular;

      (n)   "Net Sales Tax" means the tax to be introduced by the
Borrower, to replace the stamp tax, the nature of which has been
agreed with the Bank;

      (o)   "Net Sales Tax Program" means the Borrower’s program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of introducing the Net Sales
Tax as such program is defined in pages 111 to 162, Chapter 2, Annex
6 of the CPD;

      (p)   "Savings & Loans Associations" means all of the
nationalized savings and loans associations of the Borrower, being:
CASA; Ahorromet; Credisa; Atlacatl; Crece; Aprisa; and Central de
Ahorros;

      (q)   "SSF" means Superintendencia del Sistema Financiero, the
Borrower’s Superintendency of the Financial System;

      (r)   "SSF Rehabilitation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the rehabilitation of SSF as such plan
is defined in pages 271 to 309, Chapter 4 of the CPD, entitled "Plan
de Accion para el Fortalecimiento y Privatizacion del Sistema
Financiero Salvadoreno";

      (s)   "Second Tranche" means a Tranche (as such term is
hereinafter defined) not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000,000 to
be released by the Bank upon compliance by the Borrower of the
conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;

      (t)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);

      (u)   "Tax Enforcement Program" means the Borrower’s program,
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of improving tax enforcement
and increasing the number of registered tax payers, as such program
is defined in pages 79 to 88, Chapter 2 of the CPD;

      (v)   "Third Tranche" means a Tranche (as such term is
hereinafter defined) not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000,000 to
be released by the Bank upon compliance by the Borrower of the
conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and

      (w)   "Tranche" means a portion of the Loan to be made
available by the Bank to the Borrower on or after the Effective Date
of the First Tranche and upon the compliance of the actions
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the Second and Third
Tranches.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in

Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) The President of the Central Bank is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$250,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than ninety days after the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account has been
                  made under each of the First, Second and Third
                  Tranches, a certified copy of the report of the
                  respective audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank

                  has received the audit report for the period in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in each of the audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of each audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date June 10, 1991 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Ministro de Planificacion y Coordinacion del
Desarrollo Economico y Social of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordinacion
              del Desarrollo Economico y Social
            Avenida Los Diplomaticos y Calle Mexico,
            Barrio San Jacinto, Casa Presidencial
            San Salvador
            El Salvador, C.A.

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MIPLAN                    301 30309
                  Casa Presidencial
                  San Salvador,
                  El Salvador

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                  By /s/ Mirna Lievano de Marques
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable cost of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds; and (ii) the total costs of consulting services for
assisting the Borrower in the processing and verification of
documentation supporting withdrawal applications under this Loan,
provided that the cost of such services shall not exceed an
aggregate amount equivalent to $30,000.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      112               -           Alcoholic beverages

      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse

      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)

      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials

      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked

      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts

                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                    wares (including set gems)

      971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000 may be made from the First
Tranche on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after December 1, 1990;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $15,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached:

      (a)   the equivalent of $25,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program; and (ii) that the actions related to the release of the
Second Tranche described in paragraph (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and

      (b)   the equivalent of $50,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program; and (ii) that the actions related to the release of the
Second Tranche and the Third Tranche described in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 (a)
or 4 (b) above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

October 15, 1996                                1,370,000
April 15, 1997                                  1,420,000
October 15, 1997                                1,475,000
April 15, 1998                                  1,535,000
October 15, 1998                                1,595,000
April 15, 1999                                  1,655,000
October 15, 1999                                1,720,000
April 15, 2000                                  1,785,000
October 15, 2000                                1,855,000
April 15, 2001                                  1,925,000
October 15, 2001                                2,000,000
April 15, 2002                                  2,075,000
October 15, 2002                                2,155,000
April 15, 2003                                  2,240,000
October 15, 2003                                2,325,000
April 15, 2004                                  2,415,000
October 15, 2004                                2,510,000
April 15, 2005                                  2,605,000
October 15, 2005                                2,705,000
April 15, 2006                                  2,810,000
October 15, 2006                                2,920,000
April 15, 2007                                  3,030,000
October 15, 2007                                3,150,000
April 15, 2008                                  3,270,000
October 15, 2008                                3,395,000
April 15, 2009                                  3,530,000
October 15, 2009                                3,665,000
April 15, 2010                                  3,805,000
October 15, 2010                                3,955,000
April 15, 2011                                  4,105,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                 1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international cir-
                  culation; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $3,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice.

      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.

3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the

respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

5.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

6.    In order to assist the Borrower in the processing or
verification of documentation supporting withdrawal applications
under the Loan, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                         SCHEDULE 4

          Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a)(ii) and
              (b)(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

      (a)   With relation to the Release of the Second Tranche:
1.    The Borrower shall have made progress in adjusting import
tariffs in accordance with the timetable set forth in the Program,
and shall have eliminated its import tariff exemptions for
autonomous public sector institutions, except as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall have made progress in the implementation of
its Net Sales Tax Program and Tax Enforcement Program.

3.    The Borrower shall have: (i) made an official public
announcement that, by no later than January 1993, all commercial
bank interest rates shall cease to be controlled; (ii) eliminated
interest rate controls over commercial bank loans and deposits with
maturities of more than twelve months; and (iii) set all Central
Bank rediscount rates on short-term credit lines (excluding those
credit lines financed by foreign assistance loans or grants with
specific provisions for on-lending at preferential rates) at a
uniform rate not less than the prevailing market rate applicable to
180 day commercial bank deposits.

4.    The Borrower shall have: (i) brought to the market for sale
at least two Nationalized Banks; (ii) made progress in the
implementation of the SSF rehabilitation plan; and (iii) adopted an
action plan for the recapitalization and privatization of the
Savings and Loans Associations and the BH.

5.    The Borrower shall have placed IRA’s assets on the market for
sale and adopted action plans for the divestiture of: (i) INAZUCAR’s
assets; (ii) INCAFE’s assets; and (iii) the marketing activities of
BFA.

6.    The Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed on the 1992 fiscal
budgetary allocations for the social sectors.

      (b)   With relation to the Release of the Third Tranche:

1.    The Borrower shall have eliminated all import and export
permit requirements excluding those previously agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, and as such exclusions are contained and

specified in pages 18 to 25, of the CPD.

2.    The Borrower shall have put into effect the Net Sales Tax.

3.    The Borrower shall have submitted the Consolidated Budget for
fiscal year 1993 to its Legislative Assembly.

4.    The Borrower shall have eliminated interest rate controls on
commercial bank deposits with maturities of more than 180 days.

5.    The Borrower shall have:

            (i)   commenced the implementation of the action plan
                  referred to in paragraph (a) 4 (iii) of this
                  Schedule;

           (ii)   ceased to hold a controlling shareholding in at
                  least one Nationalized Bank; and

          (iii)   commenced the implementation of the action plans
                  referred to in paragraph (a) 5 of this Schedule.

6.    The Borrower shall have: (i) expanded the coverage of its
nutritional programs, namely, the program to distribute
nutritionally fortified cookies in schools and the program to
distribute weaning formula through its health posts based on the
results of pilot projects, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
undertaken by the Borrower; and (ii) commenced the implementation of
a pilot project, satisfactory to the Bank, to distribute food
coupons to the poor.

