d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3304 IND

           (East Java - Bali Urban Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated May 3, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3304 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987,
between Japan and the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the
Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by
Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported
by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter
agreement;

      (C)   Japan has made available to the Borrower a grant (the
Japanese Grant) in an amount of (cid:26)607,500,000, out of said funds to
assist the Borrower in carrying out a portion of the technical
assistance under the Project in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the agreement entered into between the Borrower and

the Bank as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the Government
of Japan dated April 30, 1990 (hereinafter the "Japan Grant
Agreement"); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Bali" means the Borrower’s Province of Bali;

      (b)   "BAPPEDA I" means a Provincial Development Planning
Agency;

      (c)   "BAPPEDA II" means a Local Development Planning Agency;

      (d)   "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development
Planning Agency;

      (e)   "Batch I Governments" means the local governments of
Badung, Buleleng, Klungkung, and Jembrana in Bali; and the local
governments of Sumenep, Banyuwangi, Jember, Sidoardjo and Lamongan
and the municipalities of Probolinggo, Mojokerto, Kediri and
Pasuruan in East Java;

      (f)   "Batch II Governments" means the local governments of
Tabanan, Gianyar, Bangli and Karangasem in Bali; and the local
governments of Situbondo, Lumajang, Malang, Pasuruan, Tulungagung,
Ponorogo, Jombang, Bojonegoro, Tuban, Gresik, Bangkalan, Sampang and
Pamekasan, and the municipalities of Madiun and Blitar, and PDAM
Surabaya in East Java;

      (g)   "Batch III Governments" means the local governments of
Bondowoso, Probolinggo, Mojokerto, Kediri, Blitar, Trenggalek,
Pacitan, Nganjuk, Madiun, Magetan, and Ngawi and the municipality of
Malang in East Java;

      (h)   "BPAM" means any Badan Pengelola Air Minum, a water
supply entity at the regional level, established pursuant to the
provisions of the Borrower’s Presidential Decree No. 29 of 1984 and
Decree No. 269/KPTS/1984 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works,
as any of the same may be amended from time to time;

      (i)   "DGBANGDA" means the Directorate General of Regional
Development in MHA;

      (j)   "DGBM" means the Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads
and Bridges) in MPW;

      (k)   "DGCK" means the Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human
Settlements) in MPW;

      (l)   "DGPUOD" means the Directorate General of Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy in MHA;

      (m)   "DLA" means a domestic lending arrangement to be entered
into between the Borrower and a Participating Local Government, as

the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to such domestic lending arrangement;

      (n)   "DPUK" means  the public works department of a local
government or municipality;

      (o)   "DPUP" means the public works department of a province;

      (p)   "East Java" means the Borrower’s Province of East Java;

      (q)   "expenditure program" means the five-year program (the
PJM) of investment and operations and maintenance expenditures
(including the financing plan therefor) for Participating Local
Governments as agreed by the Borrower and the Bank;

      (r)   "kampung" means an urban neighborhood;

      (s)   "Local PIA" means a Local Program Implementation
Agreement, to be entered into between a Project Province and a
Participating Local Government as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to such implementation
agreement;

      (t)   "MHA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs;

      (u)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

      (v)   "MPW" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (w)   "Participating Local Government" means a local
government or a BPAM or PDAM receiving investment funds under the
Loan and listed in the Annex to Schedule 1 of this Agreement;

      (x)   "PDAM" means any Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a regional
water supply enterprise, established pursuant to the provisions of
the Borrower’s Law No. 5 of 1962, Law No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26
of 1975 of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs, and Joint Decree
of the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs No. 3 of 1984 and the
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works No. 26/KPTS of 1984, as any of
the same may be amended from time to time;

      (y)   "PMDU" means the Provincial Monitoring and Development
Units established and operating in the Project Provinces;

      (z)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated September 4, 1989 and September 18,
1989 between the Borrower and the Bank.

      (aa)  "Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s Province of
East Java and Province of Bali;

      (bb)  "Provincial PIA" means a Provincial Program
Implementation Agreement, to be entered into between the Borrower
and each of the Project Provinces, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
implementation agreement; and

      (cc)  "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred eighty million three hundred thousand
dollars ($180,300,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding

            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause
the Project to be carried out, in accordance with: (i) Provincial
PIAs and Local PIAs the terms and conditions of which shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall make funds available
(which funds shall include a portion of the proceeds of the Loan) to
a Participating Local Government under a Domestic Lending
Arrangement to be entered into  between the Borrower, through its
Ministry of Finance, and such Participating Local Government, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,
including those set out in Schedule 7 hereto.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Provincial PIA, each Local PIA and each DLA in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
Provincial PIA, Local PIA or DLA or any provisions thereof.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall approve, or cause to be
approved by Participating Local Governments, all subprojects only
after they have been appraised using procedures satisfactory to the
Bank which procedures shall include provisions for resettlement,
if necessary, and on environmental impact; provided that, all
subprojects estimated to cost more than Rp 4 billion shall also be
appraised by the Bank; provided further that, revisions to any such

subproject and any change of 20% or more in a Participating Local
Government’s expenditure program shall be agreed by the Bank prior
to such revision or change taking effect.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
ensure that during the construction period of a PDAM all revenues of
such PDAM shall be retained by the PDAM.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall have prepared by April 1,
1992, an action plan and timetable, including financial analysis and
plans for adjusting tariffs consistent with the requirements of
Section 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
to convert all BPAMs in the Project Provinces into PDAMs.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, by June 30, 1993, a comprehensive review assessing the
progress of the Project, which review shall emphasize, and evaluate
expenditures relating to operations and maintenance, and shall
revise the expenditure program and financing plans, as necessary,
within the agreed totals for such program.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, by June 30 of each year of the Project, a review of the
operations and maintenance program of each Participating Local
Government, and shall take all necessary steps to ensure that such
expenditures are at least 90% of the agreed totals for such Local
Government.

      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
cause each Participating Local Government to have in place, within
three months of each Participating Local Government receiving funds
under the Project, a Project accounting system satisfactory to the
Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, the Project Provinces and the
Participating Local Governments, responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in

                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no PDAM shall incur any debt unless
a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of such PDAM
shows that the projected net revenues of such PDAM for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least
1.3 times the projected debt service requirement of such PDAM in
such year, the previous fiscal year and the next fiscal year on all
debt of such PDAM including the debt to be incurred; (b) no PDAM
debt shall be more than 70% of its total capitalization; and (c)
each BPAM or PDAM produces for each of its fiscal years (i) through
March 31, 1994, gross revenues from all sources equivalent to not
less than its operating expenses, and (ii) after March 31, 1994,
gross revenues from all sources equivalent to not less than the sum
of its operating expenses and depreciation;

            (i)    the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a PDAM
                   maturing by its terms more than one year after
                   the date on which it is originally incurred;

           (ii)    debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or further modification
                   of its terms of payment, on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into;

          (iii)    the term "net revenues of such PDAM" means gross
                   revenues of a PDAM from all sources, adjusted to
                   take account of such PDAM tariffs in effect at
                   the time of the incurrence of debt even though
                   they were not in effect during the twelve-month
                   period to which such revenues related, less all
                   operating expenses of a PDAM, including expenses
                   accountable to administration, maintenance and
                   taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
                   provision for depreciation of assets and
                   interest and other charges on debt;

           (iv)    the term "debt service requirement" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt;

            (v)    the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by a PDAM in the fiscal year in which

                   the debt in question is to be incurred, which
                   both the Bank and the PDAM accept as reasonable
                   and as to which the Bank has notified the PDAM
                   of its acceptability, provided that no event has
                   occurred since such notification which has, or
                   may reasonably be expected in the future to
                   have, a material adverse effect on the financial
                   condition or future operating results of such
                   PDAM;

           (vi)    the term "total capitalization" means debt plus
                   equity;

          (vii)    the term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of a PDAM not allocated to cover
                   specific liabilities;

         (viii)    the term "gross revenues from all sources" means
                   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   water operation, house connections, and cash
                   consumer contributions in aid of construction,
                   but excluding non-operating income and any other
                   cash inflows;

           (ix)    the term "operating expenses" means the sum of
                   all expenses related to water operations,
                   including maintenance and administration, but
                   excluding depreciation;

            (x)    the term "depreciation" means the annual
                   provision charged against revenues to
                   depreciate, on a basis acceptable to the Bank,
                   the current value of the water fixed assets in
                   operation as valued from time to time in
                   accordance with methods of valuation
                   satisfactory to the Bank; and

            (xi)   whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of
                   currency of the Borrower; debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, with the
                   absence of such rate on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.03. By April 1, 1992, and thereafter by January 1,
1994 and January 1, 1996, the Borrower shall cause each
Participating Local Government:

      (a)   to adjust its tariffs on the basis of realistic
forecasts after reviewing the adequacy of its tariffs, to meet the
requirements set out in Section 4.02 of this Agreement for the next
two years; and

      (b)   to furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon
completion.

      Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no Participating Local Government
shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenditures of such Participating Local Government shows that
the projected non-grant and local revenues for a fiscal year minus
the projected routine account expenditure on staff administration
and routine operational and maintenance needs of such Participating
Local Government for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement of such Participating Local Government in such year on
all debt of such Participating Local Government including the debt

to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    the term "debt" means any indebtedness of a
                   Participating Local Government maturing by its
                   terms more than one year after the date on which
                   it is originally incurred;

           (ii)    debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or further modification
                   of its terms of payment, on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into;

          (iii)    the term "debt service requirement" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt;

           (iv)    the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by a Participating Local Government in
                   the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
                   to be incurred, which both the Bank and the
                   Participating Local Government accept as
                   reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
                   the Participating Local Government of its
                   acceptability, provided that no event has
                   occurred since such notification which has, or
                   may reasonably be expected in the future to
                   have, a material adverse effect on the financial
                   condition or operating results of such
                   Participating Local Government; and

            (v)    whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, with the
                   absence of such rate on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of any PDAM or for the suspension of its operations; and

      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the

                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agree-ment; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obli- gations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

            Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY               45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                   44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) DLA subprojects           50,000,000        90%

(2) Civil works               77,000,000        70%

(3) Goods                     19,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(4) Consultant                28,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Refunding of               1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(6) Unallocated                4,800,000

                             ___________

    TOTAL                    180,300,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other

than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31,
1990; (b) under Category (1) with respect to any Participating Local
Government for such Local Government until the Local PIA and the DLA
for such Local Government has been signed by the respective
authorities; and (c) under Categories (2) and (3) with respect to
any Participating Local Government until the Local PIA for such
Local Government has been signed by the respective authorities.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1

Participating Local Government

I.    East Java
       1.   Mojokerto - City
       2.   Pasuruan - City
       3.   Probolinggo - City
       4.   Kediri - City
       5.   Sumenep - District
       6.   Lamongan - District
       7.   Banyuwangi - District
       8.   Sidoarjo - District
       9.   Jember - District
      10.   Madiun - City
      11.   Blitar - City
      12.   Situbondo - District
      13.   Lumajang - District
      14.   Malang - District
      15.   Pasuruan - District
      16.   Tulungagung - District
      17.   Ponorogo - District
      18.   Jombang - District
      19.   Bojonegoro - District
      20.   Tuban - District
      21.   Gresik - District
      22.   Bangkalan - District
      23.   Sampang - District
      24.   Pamekasan - District
      25.   Surabaya - PDAM
      26.   Malang - City
      27.   Bondowoso - District
      28.   Probolinggo - District
      29.   Mojokerto - District
      30.   Kediri - District
      31.   Blitar - District
      32.   Trenggalek - District
      33.   Pacitan - District
      34.   Nganjuk - District
      35.   Madiun - District
      36.   Magetan - District
      37.   Ngawi - District

II.   Bali

      38.   Badung - District
      39.   Buleleng - District
      40.   Jembrana - District
      41.   Klungkung - District
      42.   Tabanan - District
      43.   Gianyar - District
      44.   Bangli - District

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

      45.   Karangasem - District

                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve urban
infrastructure and service delivery in the Provinces of East Java
and Bali.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

      Support for the core five-year urban infrastructure
expenditure programs for about 45 Participating Local Governments in
East Java and Bali, including investment rehabilitation, operations
and maintenance expenditures, by providing civil works and equipment
for the following subsectors:  water supply, urban roads, kampung
improvement, market infrastructure improvement, solid waste
management, drainage and sanitation.

      Support and strengthening of central, provincial and local
agencies in program implementation and further program and
subproject preparation, including the provision of training and
equipment.

1.    Support for municipal management improvement in the Project
Provinces including revenue administration, local government
financial accounting and management, environmental institutional
development, and training in integrated urban infrastructure
development programming.

2.    Support for urban sector activities on a national level
including the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Implementation Support Project, together with the United Nations
Development Program and the United Nations Center for Human
Settlements, and the preparation of future projects in the urban
sector.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      December 15, 1996                         3,290,000
      June 15, 1997                             3,415,000
      December 15, 1997                         3,545,000
      June 15, 1998                             3,685,000
      December 15, 1998                         3,825,000
      June 15, 1999                             3,975,000
      December 15, 1999                         4,130,000
      June 15, 2000                             4,290,000
      December 15, 2000                         4,455,000
      June 15, 2001                             4,625,000
      December 15, 2001                         4,805,000
      June 15, 2002                             4,990,000
      December 15, 2002                         5,185,000
      June 15, 2003                             5,385,000
      December 15, 2003                         5,590,000
      June 15, 2004                             5,805,000
      December 15, 2004                         6,030,000

      June 15, 2005                             6,265,000
      December 15, 2005                         6,505,000
      June 15, 2006                             6,760,000
      December 15, 2006                         7,020,000
      June 15, 2007                             7,290,000
      December 15, 2007                         7,575,000
      June 15, 2008                             7,865,000
      December 15, 2008                         8,170,000
      June 15, 2009                             8,485,000
      December 15, 2009                         8,815,000
      June 15, 2010                             9,155,000
      December 15, 2010                         9,505,000
      June 15, 2011                             9,865,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                       Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors

      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines andparagraph 5 of 
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000
equivalent shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items for equipment and materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, provided however, that, items estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and each contract for
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the respective Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be

satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The Borrower shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the
Project in accordance with the following:

1.    With respect to Part A:

      (a)   DGCK and DGBM, with the support of the Central Program
Management and Finance Offices, are responsible for technical
supervision of all infrastructure and operations and maintenance,
and implementation of all such infrastructure and operations and
maintenance under national responsibility;

      (b)   BAPPEDA I (of each Project Province) with support of the
Provincial Program Management and Finance Offices are responsible
for program and subproject appraisal and monitoring;

      (c)   DPUPs will implement all infrastructure and operations
and maintenance under provincial responsibility;

      (d)   BAPPEDA II (of each local government) supported by
higher levels of government and by Program Management and Finance
Offices are responsible for coordination of field-level planning and
implementation; and

      (e)   DPUKs and PDAMs will implement all infrastructure under
local government responsibility.

2.    With respect to Part B:

      (a)   DGCK and DGBM with the concerned provincial agencies, as
appropriate, will implement subcomponents concerned with: (i)
further program and subproject preparation; and (ii) management of
program implementation; and

      (b)   MHA will implement subcomponents as follows: (i) DG PUOD
for supporting implementation of revenue and operations and main-
tenance management system reform; and (ii) DG BANGDA for supporting
institutional development action programs.

3.    With respect to Part C:

      (a)   DG PUOD will implement subcomponents concerned with
revenue administration and financial accounting and management;

      (b)   DG BANGDA will implement the subcomponent concerned with
environmental institutional development;

      (c)   MHA and DGCK will implement training in integrated urban
infrastructure development programming;

      (d)   BAPPENAS will implement the Support Project referred to
in Schedule 2 (C) (2); and

      (e)   DGCK will implement preparation of future projects.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule

1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to para- graph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding

special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 7

A.    For Batch I Governments:

      Interest for a subproject shall be 9.00% per annum.

B.    For Batch II and Batch III Governments:

      1.    Interest for a subproject shall be: (a) determined at
the time of appraisal of such subproject, and (b) set at a rate per
annum equivalent to the six-month average of the three-month
Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI) rate (i) less a discount of 30% of
such SBI rate for Batch II Governments; provided that, such rate
shall not be more than 10.5%; and (ii) less a discount of 25% of
such SBI rate for Batch III Governments; provided that, such rate
shall not be more than 11.5%

      2.    Notwithstanding subparagraph 1(b) above, the rate set
for a Batch II or Batch III Government shall not be less than the
interest rate charged by the Bank to the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement plus a fee of 1.75% to cover
administrative costs.

_______________________

*     Each such rate shall be rounded to the nearest quarter
      percentage point.

