d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3307 TUN

              (Population and Family Health Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 22, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3307 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS: (B) the Borrower has assured the Bank of its
intentions to implement and improve its population and family health
planning policy; and

      WHEREAS: (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BHC" means the Borrower’s Basic Health Care System
(Systcme de Soins de Sante de Base) for the provision and delivery
of family planning, maternal and child care and other medical health
care services in all rural health areas within the Borrower’s
territory;

      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958;

      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
coincides with the calendar year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31;

      (d)   "Governorates" means the administrative divisions of the
Borrower, as organized by the Borrower’s Decree dated June 21, 1956,
as amended by the Borrower’s Law No. 74-47, dated June 5, 1974; and
the term "Governorate" means each of said Governorates;

      (e)   "MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health (Ministcre
de la Sante Publique), established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Decree No. 81-793, dated June 9, 1981, and any successor
thereto;

      (f)   "Needs Index" means the index developed by the Borrower
and the Bank, establishing the Yearly Resource and Allocation
Implementation Plan (as such term is defined hereinafter) and
setting forth the optimum allocation of Project-related investments,
resources and activities for the expansion and improvement of access
to the BHC and the provision and delivery of BHC services;

      (g)   "ONFP" means the Borrower’s National Office of Popula-
tion and Family Planning (Office National de la Famille et de la
Population), established and operating under the supervisory
authority of the MOH pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 84-70, dated
August 6, 1984, as amended by the Borrower’s Law No. 87-1, dated
January 13, 1987;

      (h)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
by the Borrower within the MOH to administer the Project, and
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

      (i)   "Yearly Resource and Allocation Implementation Plan"
means the annual plan, referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agree-
ment, to be prepared by the Borrower each Fiscal Year specifying,
inter alia, the proposed allocation per Governorate of human,
physical (including vehicles) and budgetary resources, and planned
use thereof, and the programming of Project-related activities to be
financed in whole or in part by the proceeds of the Loan, for the
purposes of the provision and delivery of BHC services; and

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the

            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
MOH and ONFP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, economic, administrative and health care
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain within the Directorate of Basic Health Care of the MOH, in
a form and with functions, resources, and personnel in sufficient
numbers, including a director to be appointed by the Borrower and
possessing the requisite qualifications (the Project Director), and
terms of reference all satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, a
Project Implementation Unit (the PIU) responsible for, among other
things, supervising, coordinating and administering the overall day-
to-day implementation of the Project.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1991, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the
proposed terms of reference for the study referred to in Part D.3
(f) of the Project; (b) not later than December 31, 1992, complete
said study, taking into account the Bank’s findings and recommenda-
tions; and (c) not later than December 31, 1993, on the basis of
said findings and recommendations, establish a comprehensive
maintenance and rehabilitation system.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, not later
than October 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year
ending December 31, 1992, meet and exchange views on the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project during the
Fiscal Year under review.

      (b)   Not later than four (4) weeks prior to such exchange of
views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report, in such
detail and scope as the Bank shall reasonably request, which report
shall include an evaluation of the progress achieved by the Borrower
in carrying out the Project during such Fiscal Year.

      Section 3.05. (a) Not later than December 31 in each Fiscal
Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1991, the
Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments the Yearly

Resource Allocation and Implementation Plan for the immediately
following Fiscal Year.

      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly
thereafter, taking into account the Bank’s findings and recommenda-
tions, carry out each Yearly Resource Allocation and Implementation
Plan with due diligence and efficiency, and at all times shall take
all necessary measures to achieve the objectives thereof.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure at all times: (a) that the annual rate of increase of the
Borrower’s budgetary allocations to the non-salary operating budget
of the BHC shall be positive and at least equal to the corresponding
annual rate of increase of the Borrower’s budgetary allocations to
the non-salary operating budget of the MOH; and (b) that any and all
resources for the expansion of and improvement of access to the BHC
shall be promptly allocated on the basis of the Needs Index.

      Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine (9) months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such Fiscal Year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely: (a) that the
Borrower shall have appointed the Project Director referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement and pursuant to the provisions
thereof; and (b) that the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished
to the Bank, for its review and approval, the Yearly Resource
Allocation and Implementation Plan for the Fiscal Year ending
December 31, 1992.

      Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Regional Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
            Place Ali Zouaoui
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

                                           Telex:

                                             15117

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil Works                6,800,000        80%

(2) Goods (including          15,500,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles)                                   expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Consultants’               1,700,000        100%
 services and
    training
    (including
    fellowships
    and trans-
    portation)

(4) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________

    TOTAL                     26,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no

withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower’s
capabilities for delivering health care services to its population
in general, and to the women and children within its territory in
particular, and to lower both their fertility and mortality levels
by, inter alia, improving the provision and delivery of basic health
care services especially to underprivileged population groups and
those with the highest fertility and mortality levels.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

A.    Strengthening of BHC Services:

1.    Rehabilitating and upgrading BHC infrastructure and related
facilities, and provision of equipment and material in order to: (i)
carry out infant health care services, including the regular and
periodic monitoring of infant health, child growth monitoring and
related health care education for mothers; and (ii) equip about 557
BHC centers to carry out the health care services mentioned in Part
A.1 (i) above.

2.    Rehabilitating and equipping of an ONFP Specialized Family
Planning Center to serve as a health care service referral facility.

B.    Expanding Outreach Services to Increase Family Planning and
      Mother and Child Health Care Services:

      Provision of: (a) about 420 vehicles and related spare parts;
and (b) about 15 ONFP mobile clinics in order to: (i) extend the
range and delivery by ONFP mobile clinics of family planning and
mother and child health care services to selected BHC centers and
underserved areas within the Governorates; and (ii) progressively
integrate the provision and delivery of family planning and mother
and child health care services in BHC centers within the Gover-
norates.

C.    Improving the First Referral Level of Care

1.    Rehabilitating and providing x-ray, dental and laboratory
equipment for about 50 district hospitals within the Governorates;

2.Provision of vehicles, including about 158 ambulances, in
order to improve the first referral level of care within the
Governorates;

3.    Rehabilitating and equipping of about 5 BHC diagnostic
centers; and

4.    Refurbishing and equipping of about 6 BHC rural maternities.

D.    Quality Enhancement of the BHC

1.    Carrying out of training activities for selected BHC staff,
including management training, and provision of related training
equipment and material;

2.    Equipping of 1 maintenance workshop to serve as a pilot model
in the preparation of the maintenance study and system referred to
in Part D.3 (f) of the Project and Sections 3.03 (b) and (c) of this
Agreement.

3.    Carrying out the following studies, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) a study on the medical prescription
and dispensation practices in a representative sample of BHC

centers; (b) a study on maternal and pre-natal mortality; (c) a
study on the acceptance and perceptions of integrated family
planning and mother and child health care services within BHC
facilities; (d) a study on the impact of improved reanimation
services for the handicapped in maternities; (e) a study covering
patient flow analysis in BHC facilities of both Type III (for
preventive health care services to 10,000-15,000 inhabitants) and
Type IV (for preventive health care services to over 15,000
inhabitants); and (f) a study evaluating and assessing the
efficiency of the BHC entities’ system for maintaining and rehabili-
tating their vehicles, equipment, infrastructure and related
facilities, which study shall include, inter alia, an assessment of
the cost-effectiveness of said entities’ in-house maintenance system
as compared to a system of subcontracting maintenance activities to
private sector entities.

4.   Provision and distribution of contraceptives and the dissemi-
nation of information on contraception necessary to maintain the
current 40% contraceptive prevalence rate of married couples, and
also meet the additional needs generated by the carrying out of the
Project.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1
      beginning December 1, 1996
      through   December 1, 2007          1,085,000

On June 1, 2008                           1,045,000
_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88

      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (including
vehicles) shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Local Competitive Bidding:

      Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of seven hundred
thousand dollars ($700,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of six million dollars
($6,000,000), and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of two million five
hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000), may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Local Shopping:

      (i)   Miscellaneous equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million five
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000), may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (ii)  Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of seventy thousand dollars ($70,000) per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000), may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Direct Contracting:

      Contracts for the procurement of educational materials,
scholarships, stipends and transportation for students, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of one million two
hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000), may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures accep-
table to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of twenty percent (20%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and
3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the

Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   Eligible Expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,

refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

