d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3311 IND

           (Second Higher Education Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated May 3, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3311 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS (B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) (hereinafter called OECF) a loan
in Yen in an amount equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand
dollars ($9,600,000) (hereinafter called the OECF Loan) to assist in
the financing of the environmental study centers under Part B (v) of
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an Agreement
(hereinafter called the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and OECF;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Higher Education Program Guidelines" means the long-
term Borrower’s policies for the higher education Sub-sector,
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (b)   "DGHE" means the Directorate General for Higher Educa-
tion;

      (c)   "CPIU" means the Central Project Implementation Unit
established within DGHE on February 8, 1988, for purposes of the
overall coordination of higher education projects;

      (d)   "UKKP" means the Library Activities Coordination Unit
established within DGHE on February 10, 1988, for purposes of the
overall coordination of the university libraries;

      (e)   "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning April 1
and ending March 31; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty
million dollars ($150,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Bank
of Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

            Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through

DGHE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  educational, engineering, environmental, administra-
tive, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in

                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1991, or
such later date as the Bank shall so agree, obtain other loans or
financing, on reasonable terms, from OECF or from other sources
outside Indonesia to assist in the financing of the strengthening of
the environmental study centers under Part B (v) of the Project.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified:

      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                  ceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
                  for the financing of the Project shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor, or

           (ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jln Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY               44319 DEPKEU-IA
                  Jakarta                   45799 DJMLN-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 440098 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                        Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated               % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditure
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1) Civil works               15,000,000        70%

(2) Equipment, furniture,
    books, journals and
    instructional
    materials                 36,900,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory costs)
                                                and 65% of other
                                                locally procured
                                                items

(3) Overseas training         18,800,000        100%

(4) In-country
    training                  41,900,000        45%

(5) Technical
    assistance                 8,000,000        100%

(6) Research                  14,700,000        100%

                        Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated               % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditure
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(7) Project Management
    (excluding salaries)       6,200,000        100%

(8) Unallocated                8,500,000

                             ___________

      TOTAL                  150,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:

      (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;

      (b)   expenditures in respect of Category 2 of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for Part A (iv) of the Project until
the Borrower has appointed to manage the UKKP a full-time qualified
and experienced officer, acceptable to the Bank; and

      (c)   expenditures in respect of Category 2 of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for Part B (iv) of the Project, except
for an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, until the Borrower
has adopted an Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for: (i) the
establishment of the equipment maintenance and repair centers of the
polytechnic under the Project; and (ii) training the staff of such
centers.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
implement its Higher Education Program Guidelines aimed at: (i)
improving quality and efficiency; (ii) alleviating human resource
shortages; (iii) improving planning and management; (iv) increasing
resource mobilization; and (v) strengthening regional development.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Improvement of higher education quality and efficiency
through: (i) university staff development; (ii) expansion and
improvement of research programs; (iii) support for Inter-University
Centers and (iv) strengthening of the university library system.

Part B:     Improvement of fields of study reflecting human resource
needs, through: (i) strengthening of the basic science education and
science  teacher training; (ii) improving of the science and
technology centers located at  Medan, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang and
Semarang for their use by private universities; (iii) supporting of
the Accelerated Engineering Education Programs (PPI); (iv) streng-
thening of the 16 polytechnic; (v) strengthening of about 12
Environmental Study Centers; and (vi) the construction of physical
facilities for the: (a) agriculture faculty and auditorium at the
University of Andalas; (b) engineering and basic sciences faculties
and auditorium at the University of Gadjah Mada; and (c) pre-medical
program at the University of Lambung Mangkurat.

Part C:     Improvement of planning, management and project
implementation capacity of DGHE through: (i) carrying out of
management development programs for selected DGHE and university
staff; (ii) enhancement of the DGHE and universities management
information systems; (iii) implementation of higher education
planning and management studies; and (iv) strengthening of the CPIU.

                     *     *     *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

      December 15, 1996                   2,735,000
      June 15, 1997                       2,840,000
      December 15, 1997                   2,950,000
      June 15, 1998                       3,065,000
      December 15,1998                    3,185,000
      June 15, 1999                       3,305,000
      December 15, 1999                   3,435,000
      June 15, 2000                       3,565,000
      December 15, 2000                   3,705,000
      June 15, 2001                       3,850,000
      December 15, 2001                   3,995,000
      June 15, 2002                       4,150,000
      December 15, 2002                   4,310,000
      June 15, 2003                       4,480,000
      December 15, 2003                   4,650,000
      June 15, 2004                       4,830,000
      December 15, 2004                   5,020,000
      June 15, 2005                       5,210,000
      December 15, 2005                   5,415,000
      June 15, 2006                       5,625,000
      December 15, 2006                   5,840,000
      June 15, 2007                       6,065,000
      December 15, 2007                   6,300,000
      June 15, 2008                       6,545,000
      December 15, 2008                   6,795,000
      June 15, 2009                       7,060,000
      December 15, 2009                   7,330,000
      June 15, 2010                       7,615,000
      December 15, 2010                   7,910,000
      June 15, 2011                       8,220,000

______________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      The following premiums are specified for the purposes of

Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the balance outstand-
                                    ing on the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                     0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                      1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    All civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    All furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded, on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that
furniture estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate of $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotation
solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $5,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on

the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that
equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate of $1,700,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Books, journals and other instructional material may be pro-
cured directly from publishers, local distributors or book jobbers,
eligible under the Guidelines, or under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    Research activities may be procured under contracts awarded
under criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and (ii)
equipment, furniture, books, journals and other instructional
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out the Project in accordance with the Higher

Education Program Guidelines and an Action Plan, satisfactory to the
Bank;

      (b)   by December 31 of each year, commencing on December 31,
1991, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
a report on the implementation of the previous Fiscal Year’s budget
for the Borrower’s higher education program, and a proposed
budgetary allocation for the following Fiscal Year, and, thereafter,
taking into account the Bank’s comments, if any, make the required
budgetary allocations for the carrying out of such program during
the following Fiscal Year;

      (c)   without limitations to the provisions of Section 9.07
(a) of the General Conditions, not later than 30 calendar days after
the end of each reporting period, through DGHE, prepare and furnish
to the Bank  semi-annual progress and evaluation reports of the
Project, such reporting periods to cover the activities from April
through September and October through March of each of the Bor-
rower’s Fiscal Years;

      (d)   maintain within DGHE the CPIU, headed by a qualified and
experienced officer, acceptable to the Bank, and assigned with such
functions, responsibilities, staffing, including the assignment of
three additional professional staff by July 31, 1991,  and funds as
shall be required to enable the CPIU to adequately coordinate the
implementation of the various activities under the Project; and

      (e)   take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure
that by December 31, 1991, or such later date as the Bank shall so
agree, each of the Universities of Sumatera Utara (USU), Sriwijaya
(UNSRI), Indonesia (UI), Padjadjaran (UNPAD), Gadjah Mada (UGM),
Diponegoro (UNDIP), Lambung Maugkurat (UNLAM), Hasanuddin (UNHAS)
and Cendrawasih (UNCEN) and the Institutes of Pertanian Bogor (IPB),
Teknologi Bandung (ITB) and Teknologi Surabaya (ITS) shall adopt an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen their respec-
tive Environmental Study Centers, which action plan to include: (i)
recognition of each of the Environmental Study Centers as a
constituent part of the respective university; (ii) allotment of
qualified and experienced full-time staff to core positions of each
of the Environmental Study Centers; and (iii) recognition of the
work undertaken by the staff of the centers for promotion purposes.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account may be made as follows:

      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower

for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),

(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

