d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3312 PH

               (Cottage Enterprise Finance Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                        Dated April 4, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3312 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF
THE PHILIPPINES (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Republic of the Philippines (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent to
DM 20,000,000 to assist in financing of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW.

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has

agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Charter" means the charter of the Borrower dated
December 3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Cottage Enterprise(s)" means enterprise(s) to which a
Participating Financial Institution proposes to make or has made a
Sub-loan;

      (c)   "Sub-project" means a commercial activity to be carried
out by a Cottage Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (d)   "Participating Financial Institution(s)" means such
financial institution(s) as may be accredited by the Borrower for
participation in the Project;

      (e)   "Operating Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines
referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Statement of Policy" means the policy statement
specifying the Borrower’s objectives, general operational prin-
ciples, investment policies, financial prudence limits, financial
policy and capital structure, and the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower
on April 5, 1989;

      (h)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Financial Institution out of the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan to a Cottage Enterprise for a Sub-project;

      (i)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the amount made available by the
Borrower to a Participating Financial Institution under the
provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (j)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement(s)" means agreement(s) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Participating Financial
Institution(s) pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

      (k)   "Matching Loan" means a loan made by the Borrower to an
MGA pursuant to Schedule 4 paragraph 3 of this Agreement;

      (l)   "MGA" means a Mutual Guarantee Association licensed by
the Review Committee through the MGA Management Unit, to be eligible
to receive a Matching Loan and whose members are eligible to borrow
under the Project;

      (m)   "MGA Management Unit" means the unit established under

the authority of the Review Committee with responsibility for the
implementation and supervision of Part B (1) of the Project;

      (n)   "Review Committee" means the interagency committee
established to oversee the implementation of the Project with
powers, membership and functions acceptable to the Bank; and

      (o)   "Policy Manual" means the guidelines for carrying out of
the Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) as the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a Cottage
Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the with-
drawal from the Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semes-
ter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)

                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15, and November 15, in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, in accordance with the Charter
and the Statement of Policy, carry out Parts A, B (2) and C of the
Project and cause each Participating Financial Institution to carry
out Part A of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with
qualified management and personnel.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to the Participating Financial Institutions under separate
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered
into between the Borrower and each Participating Financial Institu-
tion as such agreements may be amended from time to time with the
concurrence of the Bank, for the purpose of onlending the proceeds
of the Subsidiary Loan to Cottage Enterprises in accordance with the
provisions hereof. The Borrower shall not, in any way, pass on the
proceeds of the Loan to Cottage Enterprises directly.

      (b)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each Subsidiary Loan and Sub-loan will be made or
caused to be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Paragraphs 1 and 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall adhere to the Operating Policy
Guidelines for the operation of the Project as agreed with the Bank.
The Operating Policy Guidelines shall, inter alia, contain those
matters as set forth or referred to in Paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to

this Agreement and such other matters as may be mutually agreed upon
by the Bank and the Borrower from time to time.

      (d)   The Borrower shall cause each Participating Financial
Institution to exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the
Borrower and the Participating Financial Institution; (ii) comply
with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.

      Section 3.03. No expenditures for goods, services and works
required for a Sub-project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
a Sub-loan shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless the procurement procedures outlined in paragraph 4
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been followed to the satisfac-
tion of the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the repayment of
principal in respect of Sub-loans made under the Project shall be
used exclusively to finance such further Sub-projects as would have
been eligible to receive financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the
Borrower.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                  this Agreement, its accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and records and
                  accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
                  year audited in accordance with sound auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by an indepen-
                  dent auditor acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditor,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning the said records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoic-
                  es, bills, receipts and other documents) evidenc-
                  ing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such

                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said auditor
                  as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the proce-dures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 5 to 1.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally in-
                  curred.

            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
                  extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
                  standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
                  instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
                  on the date the agreement providing for such
                  guarantee has been entered into but only to the
                  extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.

            (iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total un-
                  impaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.

            (iv)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in anoth-
                  er cur-rency, such valuation shall be made on the
                  basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
                  at which such other currency is, at the time of
                  such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
                  ser-vicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
                  rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
                  acceptable to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that:

      (a)   the Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;

      (b)   a change shall have been made in the Operating Policy
Guidelines without the Bank’s consent;

      (c)   The KfW Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by September 1, 1991, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and

      (d)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of KfW loan made to the Borrower
                        for the financing of the Project shall have
                        been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                        whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                        the agreement providing therefor; or

                  (B)   the KfW loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity there-
                        of.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                  to the Bor-rower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed between
the Borrower and at least five Participating Financial Institutions
acceptable to the Bank;

      (b)   the Operating Policy Guidelines of the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been adopted and put into effect; and

      (c)   the Policy Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
approved by the Review Committee established by the Guarantor.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is designated as

representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Development Bank of the Philippines
            Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner
            Makati Avenue
            Makati, Metro Manila
            Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  PHILDEBANK                 22197
                  Manila

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                  DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                  By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated            % of

                          (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)   To be Financed

(1)   Sub-loans under         15,000,000     90%
      Part A of the
      Project
                              __________

            TOTAL             15,000,000
                              ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and

      (b)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregated amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1991.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to implement the MGA scheme to
facilitate the extension of credit to cottage enterprises through
formal banking channels.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

      The financing of Sub-projects through Sub-loans to Cottage
Enterprises through Participating Financial Institutions.

      1.    Promotion, establishment, training, monitoring and
supervision of MGA.

      2.    Provision of supplemental Matching Loans.

1.    The carrying out of technical assistance program to assist the
MGA Management Unit to: (i) set-up, monitor and supervise MGA’s;
(ii) train key staff of MGA’s; (iii) provide advice and financial
assistance on waste minimization and treatment; and (iv) oversee the
implementation of the Project.

2.    The carrying out of technical assistance to assist the
Borrower in training personnel in the Participating Financial
Institution and within the Borrower in order to facilitate dealing
with the MGA to further the objective of the Project.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*

      November 15, 1996                         275,000.00
      May 15, 1997                              285,000.00
      November 15, 1997                         295,000.00
      May 15, 1998                              305,000.00
      November 15, 1998                         320,000.00
      May 15, 1999                              330,000.00
      November 15, 1999                         345,000.00
      May 15, 2000                              355,000.00
      November 15, 2000                         370,000.00
      May 15, 2001                              385,000.00
      November 15, 2001                         400,000.00
      May 15, 2002                              415,000.00
      November 15, 2002                         430,000.00
      May 15, 2003                              450,000.00
      November 15, 2003                         465,000.00
      May 15, 2004                              485,000.00
      November 15, 2004                         500,000.00
      May 15, 2005                              520,000.00
      November 15, 2005                         540,000.00
      May 15, 2006                              560,000.00
      November 15, 2006                         585,000.00
      May 15, 2007                              605,000.00
      November 15, 2007                         630,000.00
      May 15, 2008                              655,000.00
      November 15, 2008                         680,000.00
      May 15, 2009                              705,000.00
      November 15, 2009                         735,000.00
      May 15, 2010                              760,000.00
      November 15, 2010                         790,000.00
      May 15, 2011                              825,000.00

________________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                    Premium

                                      The interest rate (ex-
                                      pressed as a percentage
                                      per annum) applicable to
                                      the Loan on the day of
                                      prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                   0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                   0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

              Procedures for Terms and Conditions of
                   Subsidiary Loans, Sub-loans;
              Subsidiary Loans, Sub-loans; Operating
                  Policy Guidelines; Procurement

1.    For Subsidiary Loans from the Borrower to the Participating
      Financial Institutions:

      (a)   Relending interest rates, either fixed or floating,
shall be determined by the Borrower as prescribed in the Operating
Policy Guidelines.

      (b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) above,
floating interest rates shall be reviewed by the Borrower every six
months and in the event of any change, the revised rate shall be
made applicable on both new and outstanding loans/commitments.

      (c)   The Participating Financial Institutions shall be
required to observe the procurement guidelines outlined in paragraph
4 hereinbelow.

      (d)   Each Participating Financial Institution shall be
required to maintain records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of each Sub-project and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Participating Financial Institution.

2.    For Sub-loans from the Participating Financial Institutions to
      the Cottage Enterprises:

      (a)   Participating Financial Institutions shall be required
to observe the guidelines for making Sub-loans as prescribed by the
Borrower in the Operating Policy Guidelines.

      (b)   Sub-loans shall be based on the terms and conditions
prescribed by the Borrower in the Operating Policy Guidelines.

      (c)   The Cottage Enterprises shall be required to observe the
procurement guidelines outlined in paragraph 4 hereinbelow.

      (d)   Cottage Enterprises and Sub-projects shall be required
to meet the eligibility criteria prescribed by the Borrower in the
Operating Policy Guidelines.

      (e)   Cottage Enterprises and Sub-projects shall be required
to observe and conform with relevant environmental laws, rules and
regulations in force in the Republic of the Philippines.

      (f)   Each Cottage Enterprise shall be required to maintain
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of each Sub-
project and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
the Cottage Enterprise.

3.    Operating Policy Guidelines

      The Operating Policy Guidelines shall, inter alia, prescribe
the following:

      (i)    the accreditation criteria for Participating Financial
Institutions;

      (ii)   procedures for relending by the Borrower and terms
and conditions of the Subsidiary Loans to the Participating
Financial Institutions;

      (iii)  the exclusion of the Borrower as a retailer of funds
under the Project;

      (iv)   the eligibility criteria for Cottage Enterprises and
Sub-projects;

      (v)    procedures for onlending to the Cottage Enterprises by
the Participating Financial Institutions and terms and conditions of
Sub-loans;

      (vi)   required minimum loan financing by Participating
Financial Institutions in Sub-loans from their own funds;

      (vii)  required minimum equity contribution from Cottage
Enterprises for investment Sub-projects;

      (viii) minimum and maximum sizes of Sub-loans;

      (ix)   required conformance with environmental laws;

      (x)    the establishment of a trust account by the Borrower
for Matching Loans;

      (xi)   terms and conditions of Matching Loans;

      (xii)  the ratios of Matching Loans to MGA member initial
subscriptions from 1991 through 1994;

      (xiii) the procedures for calculating and accumulating the
interest differential on the KfW Loan;

      (xiv)  the use of the KfW interest differential income; and

      (xv)   the eligibility criteria for obtaining Matching Loans.

4.    Procurement

      Goods, services and works, to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Subsidiary Loans or Sub-loans, shall be purchased at a rea-
sonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as, (i) in the case of goods, timely delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, (ii) in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and
(iii) in the case of works, the technical quality and the competi-
tive cost therefor.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that

the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the docu-
                  ments and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  made out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-
dule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. There-
after, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Sche-
dule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit

into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

