d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3273 ZIM

                     (Second Railways Project)

                              between

                             ZIMBABWE

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated January 15, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3273 ZIM

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1991, between ZIMBABWE (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), a grant (the USAID
Grant) in an amount equivalent to thirty-nine million four hundred
thousand dollars ($39,400,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
USAID;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from Kreditanstalt fcr
Wiederaufbau, a loan (the KfW Loan), in an amount equivalent to
seven million six hundred thousand dollars ($7,600,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth

in an agreement (the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and KfW;

      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINNIDA) a loan, in an amount
equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand dollars (the
FINNIDA Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FINNIDA Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and FINNIDA;

      (E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Switzerland (the Swiss Government) a Loan, in an amount equivalent
to two million three hundred thousand dollars (the Swiss Loan) to
assist in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the Swiss Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Swiss Government;

      (F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) a grant, in an amount
equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand dollars to assist
in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the DANIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and DANIDA;
      (G)   the Borrower intends to obtaikn from the Government of
Austria (the Austrian Government) a Loan (the Austrian Loan), in an
amount equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand dollars to
assist in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the Austrian Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Austrian Government;

      (H)   the Borrower and the National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ)
intend to obtain from other sources of financing a loan or loans in
an amount or amounts equivalent to sixty-three million six hundred
thousand dollars ($63,600,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement
or agreements to be entered into with such sources of financing;

      (I)   the Project will be carried out by NRZ with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to NRZ the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and NRZ;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and NRZ of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NRZ pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan

Agreement;

      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (d )  "Framework for NRZ Operations" means the operating and
financial framework adopted by the Borrower on January 17, 1990.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-eight million six hundred thousand dollars
($38,600,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)

                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. NRZ is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause NRZ to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of NRZ therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable NRZ to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
NRZ under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NRZ under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank which shall include interest at the rate per
annum charged by the Borrower for loans to its parastatal organiza-
tions, with principal to be repaid in 20 years including five years
of grace. The current rate of interest is 10.50% per annum.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall
be carried out by NRZ pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure submit-
                  ted during such fiscal year, together with the
                  procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   NRZ shall have failed to perform any of its obligations

under the Project Agreement;

      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that NRZ will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

      (c)   the Railways Act (Chapter 261) of the Statute Law of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of NRZ
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;

      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NRZ or for the suspension of its operations;

      (e)   the Framework for NRZ Operations shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of NRZ or
its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and

      (f)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower or NRZ for the financing of the
                        Project shall have been suspended, cance-
                        lled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                        providing therefor; and

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity there-
                        of.

           (ii)   subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                  to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e)
and (f) (i) (B) (subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii)) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and NRZ;

      (b)   the Borrower has taken all governmental actions required
to implement all substantive provisions of the Framework for NRZ

Operations;

      (c)   NRZ’s tariff for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1990
has been adjusted in accordance with the relevant provisions of the
Framework for NRZ Operations; and

      (d)   The USAID Grant Agreement has been duly executed on
behalf of the Borrower and USAID and all conditions (if any)
precedent to initial disbursement of funds under such Agreement,
other than fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of this Agreement, have been satisfied.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NRZ, and is legally binding upon NRZ in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NRZ and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NRZ in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Secretary
            Ministry of Finance, Economic
                  Planning and Development
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway, Harare
            Zimbabwe

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    MINFIN 22141 ZW
                  Harare                    Zimbabwe

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United

States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  ZIMBABWE

                  By /s/ S. G. Chigwedere
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works                      5,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures

(2) Goods                     14,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3) Consultants’              17,000,000        70% of local
    services                                    expenditures for
                                                services of con-
                                                sultants domiciled
                                                within the terri-
                                                tory of the Bor-
                                                rower and 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for services
                                                of other con-
                                                sultants

(4) Unallocated              2,600,000
                            __________

         TOTAL              38,600,000
                            ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist in the organiza-
tional, financial and asset restructuring of NRZ to enable it to
increase the utilization of its existing capacity, cater effectively
to the prospective demand for rail transport and to become more
financially self-sufficient.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

1.    Acquisition of about 25 main line locomotives and initial
      spare parts related thereto.

2.    Repowering of 43 shunting locomotives and acquisition of three
      spare engines.

3.    Acquisition of locomotive spare parts for deferred maintenance
      operations.

4.    Acquisition of about 520 drop-sided wagons and about 500 high-
      sided wagons.

5.    Acquisition of about 50 passenger coaches.

6.    Acquisition of a telephone exchange, centralized traffic
      control supervision equipment, portable radio sets for
      locomotives and yard operations and digital data transmission
      equipment.

7.    Acquisition of a 100-ton diesel-operated crane.

8.    Acquisition of plant and machinery for the Bulawayo, Dabuka
      and Mutare workshops, spare parts for rehabilitation of
      unserviceable road vehicles and rail and road service vehi-
      cles.

9.    Acquisition of essential items of equipment, including vacuum
      pressure impregnation units, coil winder and banding machine
      for NRZ’s electrical workshops.

10.   Extension of the electrified section of track between Lochin-
      var and Mount Hampden by about 22 kilometers and the section
      between Harare and Msasa by about 6 kilometers and acquisition
      of about 14 auxiliary auto-transformers.

11.   Acquisition of audio visual aids and allied equipment,
      training models for communications systems, locomotive
      maintenance and library equipment and centralized traffic
      control supervision equipment for the NRZ Training School.

Part B:     Organizational Restructuring

1.    Carrying out a program for the organizational restructuring
      and strengthening of NRZ through the provision of about 745
      person-months of technical advisory services.

2.    Carrying out a management development program for NRZ,
      including the training of its senior and middle-level staff
      and a program of secondments and attachments to other railways
      and professional institutions.

Part C:     Operational Restructuring

      Acquisition of operating information systems, including
hardware and software and provision of about 160 person-months of
technical advisory services.

Part D:     Financial Management and Restructuring

      Carrying out a program to assist NRZ to improve its financial
management practices, including the provision of technical advisory
services for the development of cost accounting and control systems
and acquisition of computer software packages and development of
accounting systems software.

Part E:     Studies

      Carrying out of: (i) a locomotive maintenance audit, including
the establishment of a permanent inspectorate to carry out regu-
lar maintenance audits; (ii) a manpower study; (iii) a management
information system strategy study; and (iv) various short-term
specific and operational and efficiency studies consistent with the
objectives of the Project.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*

July 15, 1996                                          705,000
January 15, 1997                                       730,000
July 15, 1997                                          760,000
January 15, 1998                                       790,000
July 15, 1998                                          820,000
January 15, 1999                                       850,000
July 15, 1999                                          885,000
January 15, 2000                                       920,000
July 15, 2000                                          955,000
January 15, 2001                                       990,000
July 15, 2001                                        1,030,000
January 15, 2002                                     1,070,000
July 15, 2002                                        1,110,000
January 15, 2003                                     1,155,000
July 15, 2003                                        1,195,000
January 15, 2004                                     1,245,000
July 15, 2004                                        1,290,000
January 15, 2005                                     1,340,000
July 15, 2005                                        1,395,000
January 15, 2006                                     1,445,000
July 15, 2006                                        1,505,000
January 15, 2007                                     1,560,000
July 15, 2007                                        1,620,000
January 15, 2008                                     1,685,000
July 15, 2008                                        1,750,000
January 2009                                         1,815,000
July 15, 2009                                        1,885,000
January 15, 2010                                     1,960,000
July 10, 2010                                        2,035,000

January 15, 2011                                     2,105,000

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents deter-
    mined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
    Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                           Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the

Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or

the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

