d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3507 TUN

               (Municipal Sector Investment Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated October 7, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3507 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by the
Municipal Development Agency (MDA) with the Borrower’s assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
MDA a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and MDA;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and MDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MDA pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
made to MDA pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the subsidiary grant
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MDA pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Grant Agreement;

      (d)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreements" means, collectively,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement;

      (e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
MDA to a Beneficiary for a Development Project under Part C of the
Project, out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to MDA under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (f)   "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by MDA
to a Beneficiary for a Development Project under Part C (1)(a) of
the Project, out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to MDA
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Development Project" means a specific development
project referred to in Part C of the Project to be carried out by a
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan or a Grant;

      (h)   "Beneficiary" means a municipal or regional administra-
tion of the Borrower or other entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, such administration, to
which MDA proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or a Grant;

      (i)   "Charter" means the Borrower’s Law No. 75-37 dated
May 14, 1975 and Decree No. 92-688 dated April 16, 1992, pursuant to
which MDA was established and is operating;

      (j)   "Operational Guidelines" means MDA’s statement of
lending policies and procedures referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement;

      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (l)   "Central Bank" means the central bank of the Borrower
(Banque Centrale de Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958;

      (m)   "Municipal Finance Development Program" means the
program to improve the efficient and effective financing of the
operations of the Borrower’s municipal and regional administrations,
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, as the same may be revised
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02
of this Agreement;

      (n)   "Dinar" means the currency of the Borrower; and

      (o)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period

                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                          Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   implement the Municipal Finance Development Program with

due diligence and efficiency and at all times take all necessary
action to achieve the objectives thereof;

      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than Decem-
ber 31, in each of its fiscal years, a report in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the Municipal Finance Development Program and the measures
recommended to further such progress; and

      (c)   thereafter, update the Municipal Finance Development
Program and implement the measures required to ensure the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof, taking into consideration the
recommendations of the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section and the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   MDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that MDA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of MDA or for the suspension of its operations.

      (d)   The Charter or the Operational Guidelines shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial
condition of MDA or the ability of MDA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and MDA.

      (b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and MDA;

      (b)   the training directorate referred to in paragraph 1 (c)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has been established and the
Director and other staff of said Directorate have been appointed,
all in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph;

      (c)   the Operational Guidelines have been adopted by MDA; and

      (d)   the management team referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement has been appointed to MDA in accordance with
the provisions of said Section.

      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by MDA, and is legally binding upon MDA in accordance with
its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the
Borrower and MDA in accordance with their respective terms.

      Section 5.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of

Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Regional Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning and Regional
              Development
            Place Ali Zouaoui
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MIPLAN                    15117
                   Tunis

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio K. Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                               Middle East and North Africa Region

                               SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the

amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Goods:

     (a) for Part A             800,000)
         of the                        )        100% of foreign
         Project                       )        expenditures and
                                       )        80% of local
     (b) for Part B             200,000)        expenditures
         of the                        )
         Project                       )

(2)  Consultants’ ser-
     vices, fellowships
     and training:

     (a) for Part A           1,600,000)
         of the                        )
         Project                       )
                                       )        100%
     (b) for Part B             400,000)
         of the                        )
         Project                       )

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3)  Works, goods
     and services

     (a) for Part C (1)       12,000,000        45%
         (a) of the
         Project

     (b) for Part C (1)       44,000,000        45%
         (b) of the
         Project

     (c) for Part C (2)       12,000,000        60%
         of the Project

(4)  Unallocated               4,000,000

      TOTAL                   75,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   a Sub-loan or a Grant unless the Sub-loan or Grant, as
the case may be, has been made in accordance with the procedures and
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule

to the Project Agreement; and

      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $7,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 7, 1991.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in (1) improving
the efficiency of the Borrower’s municipal and regional administra-
tions, and (2) furthering the development of infrastructure and
provision of services in the Borrower’s municipalities.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the management and
operations of the Borrower’s Ministries of Interior and of Finance,
and of the Borrower’s regional and municipal administrations,
including (1) the carrying out of studies to develop efficient and
effective systems for the mobilization and allocation of budgetary
resources for said administrations and for the recovery of the
investment costs incurred by said administrations, (2) the carrying
out of studies to develop suitable systems and procedures for said
Ministries and administrations in respect of investment planning and
management, and (3) the development and implementation of a training
program to strengthen the professional capabilities of the staff of
said Ministries and administrations, including the establishment of
a training directorate within said Ministry of Interior; and
provision of equipment and vehicles required for said program.

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of MDA in respect of the evaluation,
financing and supervision of municipal development projects,
including, inter alia, the introduction of a suitable accounting
system, the implementation of a training program for the staff of
MDA and the provision of equipment and vehicles required therefor.

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

      Financing, through MDA, of specific development projects to:
(1) construct, upgrade, rehabilitate and maintain the infrastruc-
ture, including streets, parks, drainage systems, street lighting,
water supply and sewerage systems and solid waste collection,
disposal and treatment systems, in existing (a) low-income neighbor-
hoods and (b) other neighborhoods; and (2) construct market and
other municipal facilities.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 1 and November 1

      beginning November 1, 1997
      through   May 1, 2009                      3,125,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower’s
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Local Competitive Bidding Procedures

1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or
less per contract, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Local Shopping

2.    Works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Direct Contracting

3.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000, may be procured through direct negotiations with the
suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) the first two contracts for works
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C
of this Section, and thereafter, each contract for works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and (ii)  each
contract procured in accordance with the provisions of Part A of
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

General

1.    (a)   The Borrower shall maintain at all times throughout the
period of Project implementation, an inter-ministerial consultative
committee, whose terms of reference and membership shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Said committee shall be responsible for
the oversight of the Project and shall meet at least once every
calendar year.

      (b)   The Borrower shall maintain at all times throughout the
period of Project implementation a Project coordinator, with terms
of reference and qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank, who shall report to the Borrower’s Minister of Interior and be
responsible for the day-to-day coordination of Project imple-
mentation, and in particular, for the coordination of the carrying
out of the studies included in Part A of the Project.

      (c)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at
all times throughout the period of Project implementation and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a training directorate,
within the General Directorate for Municipalities of the Borrower’s
Ministry of Interior. Said directorate shall be responsible for
coordinating the carrying out of the training program included in
Part A of the Project and shall be headed by a Director who shall be
assisted by two staff-persons, all with qualifications and experi-
ence satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

3.    The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not
later than December 31 of each calendar year, for its review and
comments, the proposed program of training and of studies to be
carried out under Part A of the Project during the next following
calendar year, including proposed terms of reference for said
studies; and (b) thereafter carry out such program of training and
of studies as shall have been agreed with the Bank.

Parts B and C of the Project

4.    The Borrower shall (a) relend to MDA the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category (3) to MDA under a subsid-
iary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MDA,
and (b) make available to MDA the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) on a grant
basis, under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and MDA, in both cases, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which, in the case of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, shall include those set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.

5.    The Borrower shall: (a) cause MDA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
MDA therein set forth, take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable MDA to perform such
obligations, and not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (b) exercise
its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Financing Agreements or any provision thereof.

6.    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 5 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, so long as it exercises control over
the setting of interest rates charged by MDA, establish a structure
and levels of such interest rates which would enable MDA to comply
with its obligations under Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.07 of the
Project Agreement.

7.   The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set

forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively) in
respect of Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by MDA
pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

                      ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

                    Terms and Conditions of the
                     Subsidiary Loan Agreement

      The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans
and all Grants made to Beneficiaries.

2.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, at
the rate applicable to the Loan, as provided in Section 2.05 of this
Agreement, on the date on which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is
signed.

3.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid to the Borrower over a
period of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five
(5) years.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), and (3); and

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Investment Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
2 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of Sub-loans and Grants made
pursuant to Part B.3 (c) of the Annex to the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible
expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such
withdrawals; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan

Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any

amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

