d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3439 PH

          (Rural Electrification Revitalization Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

              NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION

                        Dated June 3, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3439 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL
ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan;

      (C)   the Borrower has entered into contract with the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) a grant (the
USAID Grant) in an amount of $40,000,000 to assist in financing
Parts B and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Charter" means the Charter of the National
Electrification Administration established under the Guarantor’s
Presidential Decree No. 269 dated August 6, 1973;

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Statement of Operating Policy" means the statement of
operating policy specifying the Borrower’s objectives, general
operational principles, Borrower’s scope of work, financing
strategies, investment guidelines, the statement of lending policy
and evaluation criteria to be applied to the rural electric
enterprises to whom it lends, approved by the Board of
Administrators of the Borrower on November 12, 1991;

      (d)   "Rural Electric Cooperative" and "REC" means an
enterprise, normally a cooperative organized to supply electric
services in accordance with the provisions of the Charter; and

      (e)   "Tariff Policy Manual" means the manual that includes
the compilation of the Borrower’s policies governing the REC’s
electricity tariffs.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety-one million three hundred thousand dollars
($91,300,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance

with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable

semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) the provisions of Statement
of Operating Policy.

      (c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to the Rural Electric Cooperatives under terms and
conditions which have been approved by the Bank.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Rural
Electric Cooperatives to, carry on their operations and conduct
their affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Rural
Electric Cooperatives to, at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Rural
Electric Cooperatives to, take out and maintain, with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause the
Rural Electric Cooperatives to,  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause the Rural Electric
Cooperatives to:

            (i)    have their records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the

                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                   Borrower’s financial statements for such year as
                   so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. By December 31, 1992 and each year thereafter
during Project implementation period, the Borrower shall: (a) carry
out, in consultation with the Bank, a review of its investment
program for the succeeding five years and its investment accom-
plishments for the preceding two years; and (b) adopt the recom-
mendations arising from these reviews taking into account the
comments made by the Bank.

      Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies used in its operations.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The USAID Grant Agreement shall have been amended to
include financing for Parts B and C of the Project by May 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower

establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      (c)   The Charter or the Statement of Operating Policy or the
Tariff Policy Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
operation or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, (a) the
event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur; and (b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Tariff Policy Manual shall have been adopted by
the Borrower’s Board of Administrators;

      (b)   that consultants to conduct a technical assistance
effort in the area of materials handling shall have been employed;
and

      (c)   that consultants to provide assistance to the Borrower’s
loan administration function shall have been employed.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Administrator of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            National Electrification Administration
            1050 Quezon Avenue
            Quezon City
            Metro Manila
            Republic of the Philippines

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   NEAPHIL                   42043
                   Metro Manila

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/            Gautam S. Kaji

                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                         NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION

                         By /s/            Franklin M. Ebdalin

                                         Authorized Representative

                          SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods                     82,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,

                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Civil works                3,300,000        85%

(3) Technical                  1,000,000        100%
    assistance

(4) Unallocated                5,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                91,300,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to enhance Borrower’s
capability to function as core agency for the sector through its
application of strategies for evaluating and selecting investments,
supervising the implementation of schemes, and financing the RECs;
(ii) to encourage operational and financial reforms among the RECs;
(iii) to improve the availability of electricity supply in rural
areas by financing a portion of the Borrower’s 1992-95 investment
program; and (iv) to provide for the Borrower and the RECs technical
assistance and training needed for institutional development.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     REC Distribution Systems

(1)   Construction of about forty 69/13.2 kV substations of 5, 10,
      or 20 MVA each at about 25 RECs, and upgrading of about 15
      substations at about 6 other RECs;

(2)   Construction of about 4,300 km of 13.2/7.6 kV three phase and
      single phase primary lines, and about 2,500 km of 220/110
      volts secondary lines and installation of about 21,000 dis-
      tribution transformers with a total capacity of around 450 MVA
      at about 54 RECs; and

(3)   Provision of service materials for connection of about 400,000
      consumers, including service connections, meters and low
      tension capacitors (around 100,000 kVAR) at about 54 RECs.

Part B:     Support Facilities

(1)   Provision of support equipment, including tools; service

      vehicles; office and communication equipment; and  computers
      for upto 120 RECs; and

(2)   Provision of infrastructure and support facilities for the
      Borrower, including regional offices, buildings at zonal
      repair centers, a training center, a workshop and warehouses,
      and the equipment needed for those facilities.

Part C:     Training and Technical Assistance

      Consulting services and training to assist the Borrower and
the RECs in project execution, operation and management (including
upgrading of technical and financial capabilities and skills).

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

October 15, 1997                           1,665,000
April 15, 1998                             1,730,000
October 15, 1998                           1,795,000
April 15, 1999                             1,865,000
October 15, 1999                           1,940,000
April 15, 2000                             2,015,000
October 15, 2000                           2,090,000
April 15, 2001                             2,170,000
October 15, 2001                           2,255,000
April 15, 2002                             2,340,000
October 15, 2002                           2,435,000
April 15, 2003                             2,525,000
October 15, 2003                           2,625,000
April 15, 2004                             2,725,000
October 15, 2004                           2,830,000
April 15, 2005                             2,940,000
October 15, 2005                           3,055,000
April 15, 2006                             3,170,000
October 15, 2006                           3,295,000
April 15, 2007                             3,420,000
October 15, 2007                           3,555,000
April 15, 2008                             3,690,000
October 15, 2008                           3,835,000
April 15, 2009                             3,985,000
October 15, 2009                           4,135,000
April 15, 2010                             4,295,000
October 15, 2010                           4,465,000
April 15, 2011                             4,635,000
October 15, 2011                           4,815,000
April 15, 2012                             5,005,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)

                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Philippines
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 and all contracts for civil works,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be fur-
nished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The Borrower shall:

1.    Furnish to the Bank a copy of each on-lending agreement
between the Borrower and the Rural Electric Cooperative not later
than one month following the signature of said Agreement.

2.    Ensure that the Rural Electric Cooperatives agree to adhere to
long-term financial performance targets and performance improvement
programs, acceptable to the Bank, prior to extending any loan.

3.    Furnish the evaluation reports covering the REC’s investment
programs, financed under the Project, to the Bank for review and
comments in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan

allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining

unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

