d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3483 UNI

        (National Agricultural Technology Support Project)

                              between

                   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 25, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3483 UNI

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1992, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower will carry out the Project with the
assistance of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi, Sokoto and other States
of Nigeria eligible to participate in the Project (hereinafter
together referred to as the Project States);

      (C)   the Borrower will relend to the Project States under
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower

and the Project States proceeds of the Loan required by the Project
States to carry out the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means an account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "FMAWRRD" means the Federal Ministry of Agriculture,
Water Resources and Rural Development of the Borrower;

      (c)   "PCC" means the Projects Coordinating Committee of the
Borrower established under Loan No. 2988-UNI (Second Multi-State
Agricultural Development Project), as modified for the purposes of
the Project;

      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Project
States pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

      (e)   "ATSFC" means the Agricultural Technology Support
Facility Committee mentioned in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "FACU" means the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
of the Borrower;

      (g)   "BASIRDA" means the Bauchi State Integrated Rural
Development Authority;

      (h)   "KNARDA" means the Kano Agricultural and Rural Develop-
ment  Authority;

      (i)   "SARDA" means the Sokoto Agricultural and Rural
Development Authority;

      (j)   "ADPS" means the Agricultural Development Projects of
the Project States;

      (k)   "Project Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;

      (l)   "Initial Amounts" means the initial amounts referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) (A) of this Agreement and in paragraph (b)
(ii) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (m)   "State" means a State of Nigeria; and

      (n)   "Project Period" means the period between the date of
effectiveness of this Agreement and the Closing Date;

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($42,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, or cause to be opened and maintained, for Bauchi,
Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States in dollars special deposit
accounts in one or more commercial banks on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
a Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding

                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the Borrower’s
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) provide in its budget amounts adequate to cover its counterpart
contributions to the costs of the Project; (ii) cause Bauchi,
Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States of Nigeria to open and
maintain for their respective ADPS in a commercial or commercial
banks project accounts (the Project Accounts) to be used by such
ADPS for purposes of the Project; and (iii) pay into each of the
Project Accounts (A) initial amounts (the Initial Amounts)
equivalent to $250,000 (for Bauchi State), $300,000 (for Jigawa and
Kano States), $200,000 (for Kebbi and Sokoto States) being the
counterpart contributions of the Borrower towards the respective
expenditures to be made under the Project by the said ADPS during
the first year of the Project Period, and (B) within 30 days
following the end of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower (beginning
with the first full fiscal quarter falling within the Project
Period) 25% of the said counterpart contributions. The Borrower and
the Bank estimate such counterpart contributions to amount, in 1991
prices over the Project Period to $9,800,000 equivalent.

      (c)   The Borrower shall: out of the proceeds of the Loan and
under agreements (the Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into
by the Borrower and the Project States on terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank (including those set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement), relend to: (i) Bauchi State
$11,400,000 equivalent; (ii) Jigawa and Kano States $13,700,000
equivalent; (iii) Kebbi and Sokoto States $10,800,000 equivalent;
and (iv) Project States (other than Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and
Sokoto States) such amounts of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category (5) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as shall respectively
be determined by the Borrower and the Project States.

      (d)   The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) in a form and with functions and staffing satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank. PCC shall, inter alia, be
responsible for the timely resolution of issues relating to the
coordination of the policies and activities of the various agencies
of the Borrower and the Project States carrying out the Project.

      (e)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain an Agricultur-
al Technology Support Facility Committee (ATSFC) in a form and with
functions satisfactory to the Bank. ATSFC shall, on behalf of the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Develop-
ment (FMAWRRD), administer the Agricultural Technology Support
Facility to be established pursuant to Part C (1) of the Project.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, starting from 1992,
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank no later than
November 30 of each year of the Project Period, annual work programs
and budgets for the Project satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of
the next following year. The said programs and budgets shall, inter
alia, (i) adequately show the activities being carried out under the
Project, Project unit costs, benefits and productivity, and (ii)
provide a basis for the proper management of the Project and the
establishment and operation of a sound Project accounting system.

      (b)   The Borrower shall conclude by July 31, 1992, agreements
satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out by national institu-
tions acceptable to the Bank, of research to test and adapt
available animal drawn or manually operated implements to conditions
prevalent in the rainfed and irrigated areas of the Project.

      (c)   The Borrower shall require all proposals received from
Project States for financing under the Agricultural Technology
Support Facility (ATSF) to be first appraised by the Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and then reviewed by ATSFC
which, if it approves the proposal, shall send the first five of all
such proposals to the Bank for the Bank’s further review.

      (d)   The Borrower shall require all proposals referred to in
paragraph (c) above estimated to cost more than $1,000,000
equivalent to be appraised by FACU, cleared by ATSFC and submitted
to the Bank for approval.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out by Decem-
ber 31, 1995, jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review to determine
progress made in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) for the
purpose of (i) above through FACU coordinate the preparation of the
comprehensive reports needed for the said review.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and

expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section (including those
                  for the Special Accounts and the Project Ac-
                  counts) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
                  dance with appropriate auditing principles con-
                  sistently applied, by independent auditors ac-
                  ceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any of the Project States shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely the
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has paid into the Project Accounts the
Initial Amounts in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this
Agreement; and

      (b)   at least one Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
mentioned in Section 6.01 above has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and the Project State concerned, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the said Project State in accordance
its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Honorable Minister of Finance and Economic
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat
            Ikoyi, Lagos
            Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FEDMINFIN                 21248
                  Lagos

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  By /s/ Zubair M. Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works                3,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures or
                                                95%

(2) Vehicles and              15,500,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures and
    (including                                  90% of local
    spare parts)                                expenditures
    and planting
    materials

(3) Consultants’               5,000,000        100%
    services, studies
    and training

(4) Incremental                9,500,000        60% until
    operating costs                             $6,000,000
                                                equivalent
                                                has been
                                                disbursed
                                                and 40% for
                                                amounts disbursed
                                                thereafter

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Agricultural
    Technology
    Support
    Facility:

    (a) civil works              500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures or
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures

    (b) vehicles and           3,000,000        100% of foreign
        equipment                               expenditures and

        (including                              90% of local
        spare parts)                            expenditures
        and planting
        materials

    (c) consultants’           1,000,000        100%
        services,
        studies and
        training

    (d) incremental            1,800,000        50%
        operating costs

(6) Unallocated                3,200,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                42,500,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent may be made under Categories (1) and
(3) on account of payments made before that date but after December
31, 1991;

      (b)   expenditures made by any Project State until that
Project State has in accordance with: (i) paragraph (i) of Schedule
6 to this Agreement appointed a Program Manager, a Financial
Controller and a Chief Agricultural Officer (together with two
deputies to be responsible for Adaptive Research and Extension); and
(ii) paragraph (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement paid into the
Project Account the initial amount due;

      (c)   expenditures made by Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi or
Sokoto State until Bauchi, Kano or Sokoto State has, under the
unification plan referred to in paragraph (c) of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement, completed the transfer of all its existing agricultural
extension staff to its ADP;

      (d)   expenditures under Category (5) above until the ATSFC
and its Secretariat have been established in accordance with Section
3.01 (f) of this Agreement; and

      (e)   expenditures of any Project State until that Project
State has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the agencies
of the Borrower responsible for its agricultural technology
adaptation and dissemination programs to develop, adapt and extend
location specific technologies required for sustainable development
of the principal farming systems in Nigeria; and (ii) assist the
agencies to reorganize and unify the agricultural extension services
in order to provide better and cost effective service to all
categories of farmers including women.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Technical Support Services

(1)   On-farm adaptive research in Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and
Sokoto States of Nigeria (the Project States) including: (i) the
provision of vehicles, farm and office equipment for, and improve-
ments to, selected field testing facilities; (ii) a limited number
of on-station or field trials; (iii) planning and review of the on-
farm adaptive research referred to above; and (iv) sponsored
research to be undertaken on behalf of the ADPs. (2)  Reorganisation
and unification of the State agricultural extension services
including: (i) extension of such services to animal husbandry, agro-
forestry, fisheries, soil and water conservation practices and
animal traction; (ii) improvement in existing extension facilities;
(iii) construction of new training halls for village extension
agents; (iv) provision of additional space at the ADPS’ head-
quarters, zonal and area level locations; and (iv) strengthening of
extension media units and on-going radio and television programs.

(3)   Assisting women to participate effectively in agriculture
including: (i) provision of trained female staff at the ADPS’
headquarters to deal with matters concerning women in agriculture;
(ii) organisation and coordination by the ADPS on a State-wide basis
of field and training activities for women; (iii) provision of
suitable transportation for staff of the ADPS dealing with matters
concerning women in agriculture; (iv) advising women on crop
production techniques, animal production, food processing and
nutrition; and (v) promoting other agro-based income generating
activities for women.

(4)   Promotion of the use of animal traction and animal drawn farm
implements including: (i) rehabilitation and/or conversion of
existing facilities in each of the Project States into animal
traction or work oxen training centers; (ii) specialized and
intensive training of village extension agents; (iii) short training
courses for farmers interested in starting business as village
mechanics, blacksmiths and carpenters who will repair and/or produce
simple implements; and (iv) purchase and local manufacture of
prototypes of simple farm tools and animal drawn implements for
testing and demonstration to farmers.

(5)   On-farm agro-forestry and soil and water conservation
including: (i) the use of biological methods (trees and vetiveria
planting in association with contour cultivation) to conserve soil
and water and improve fertility; (ii) cultivation of valuable native
farm trees such as Acacia albida to provide fuelwood and feed for
livestock; (iii) production of vetiveria or other suitable grass and
tree seedlings in existing ADPS and community managed nurseries to
be established under the Project; (iv) promotion of vetiveria or
other suitable grasses and trees in rainfed and irrigated areas of
the Project States; and (v) establishment of demonstration and
training plots to show farmers the benefits to be derived from
different soil conservation, moisture retention and agro-forestry
practices.

Part B:     Project Management

(1)   Strengthening the administration and finances of the ADPS
including: (i) construction and rehabilitation of their buildings
and facilities; (ii) provision to the project management units of
the ADPS of vehicles and office equipment; (iii) review of the
accounting systems and financial procedures of the ADPS; and (iv)
indepedent audit of the Project accounts and expenditures of the
ADPS.

(2)   Strengthening of the planning, monitoring and evaluation units
of the ADPS (PMEUs) including: (i) assisting the PMEUs to provide
their respective State Governments with accurate reports on

performance under their respective agricultural programs; (ii)
construction and renovation of the offices of the PMEUs; and (iii)
provision to the PMEUs of vehicles and office equipment (including
computers and photocopiers).

(3)   ADP manpower development and training including training the
management, technical, extension and administrative staff of the
ADPS on the basis of the long-term human resource development plan
prepared by the Borrower and annually updated by the Borrower under
the Project.

(4)   Technical assistance to ADP and other Project executing
agencies including assisting extension human resource development,
financial reviews, accounts and financial procedures, monitoring and
evaluation and research on crops, livestock, fisheries, animal
traction, and agro-forestry activities.

Part C:     Agricultural Technology Support Facility

(1)   Establishment of an Agricultural Technology Support Facility
(ATSF) to assist in the financing of proposals including the making
of loans: (i) to assist States other than Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano,
Kebbi and Sokoto States of Nigeria to replicate programs to acquire,
adapt and disseminate appropriate agricultural technology under the
Project; (ii) to rehabilitate the facilities of, and provide
operational support, to the Borrower’s National Center for Agricul-
tural Mechanisation (NCAM) to test and adapt animal drawn equipment
and farm tools for use in Nigeria; (iii) to develop on a pilot basis
technology and extension recommendations to minimize climatic risks
in rainfed agriculture; (iv) to develop sustainable smallholder
agricultural programs to integrate crops with livestock, fisheries
and agro-forestry activities in the semi-arid zones of Northern
Nigeria; and (v) to provide vehicles, computers, office equipment,
furniture and other necessary facilities to ATSFC and its
Secretariat.

                           *   *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1997                                   775,000
May 1, 1998                                        805,000
November 1, 1998                                   835,000
May 1, 1999                                        870,000
November 1, 1999                                   900,000
May 1, 2000                                        935,000
November 1, 2000                                   975,000
May 1, 2001                                      1,010,000
November 1, 2001                                 1,050,000
May 1, 2002                                      1,090,000
November 1, 2002                                 1,130,000
May 1, 2003                                      1,175,000
November 1, 2003                                 1,220,000
May 1, 2004                                      1,270,000
November 1, 2004                                 1,320,000
May 1, 2005                                      1,370,000
November 1, 2005                                 1,420,000
May 1, 2006                                      1,475,000
November 1, 2006                                 1,535,000
May 1, 2007                                      1,595,000
November 1, 2007                                 1,655,000
May 1, 2008                                      1,720,000
November 1, 2008                                 1,785,000
May 1, 2009                                      1,855,000
November 1, 2009                                 1,925,000

May 1, 2010                                      2,000,000
November 1, 2010                                 2,075,000
May 1, 2011                                      2,160,000
November 1, 2011                                 2,240,000
May 1, 2012                                      2,330,000

____________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment            Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
$200,000 or more each.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and

paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate amount of $3,600,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than $60,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.

                             SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into each of the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Categories, and in the re-
                  spective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account,  the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated

to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.   (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule,
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

        Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
         Referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement

      The provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall, inter
alia, require:

      (a)   all of the Project States to (i) pay annual interest and
other charges on, and repay the principal of, the proceeds of the
Loan relent to them on the same terms and conditions as, with
respect to the payment of interest and other charges and repayment
of principal shall apply under the provisions of this Agreement to
the Borrower, and (ii) provide in their annual budgets amounts
adequate to cover the estimated incremental expenditures under the
Project of the ADPs;

      (b)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States each to
(i) open and maintain the Project Accounts for their ADPs; and (ii)
pay into the Project Accounts (A) initial amounts equivalent to
$250,000 (Bauchi State), $300,000 (Jigawa and Kano States) and
($200,000 Kebbi and Sokoto States) as their counterpart contribu-
tions towards the expenditures to be made by their ADPs in respect
of the Project during the first year of the Project Period, and (B)
within 30 days following the end of each fiscal quarter of the
Borrower (beginning with the first full fiscal quarter falling
within the Project Period) 25% of their respective counterpart
contributions;

      (c)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States to (i)

prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan satisfactory to the Bank for
the unification of their agricultural extension activities under
their ADPS and (ii) determine the exact number of existing extension
staff to be transferred under the said extension unification plans
to their ADPS;

      (d)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States not to to
employ any new Block Extension Supervisors or new Village Extension
Agents (VEAs) (i) until it has first determined the number of
existing extension staff to be so transferred, or (ii) in excess of
the number needed under the extension unification plan;

      (e)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States to
maintain a VEA to farm family ratio of about 1:1000;

      (f)   Jigawa and Kano States (which have attained the ratio
referred to in (d) above) not to employ any new VEAs in addition to
the VEAs employed by them as of the date of the Loan Agreement;

      (g)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States respec-
tively to (i) employ within three months after the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement qualified and experienced accountants to review
(A) the adequacy of staff skills and resources of their respective
ADPS for producing timely and adequate project accounts, and (B) the
accounting and financial procedures of their respective ADPS with a
view to recommending improvements in the said procedures; (ii)
furnish to the Bank the results of the said review for the Bank’s
comments within six months after the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment;

      (h)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States each to
establish by December 31, 1992, in a form and with functions
satisfactory to the Bank an Agricultural Programs Liaison Committee
to improve linkages with other state agencies at the operational
level;

      (i)   the Project States each to (i) maintain its respective
Agricultural Program Management Unit in a form and with functions
satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) appoint and assign to the
Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, qualified
and experienced persons to manage the Project including a Program
Manager, a Financial Controller, the respective Heads of the
Agricultural Services including a Chief Agricultural Officer
(together with two deputies to be responsible for Adaptive Research
and Extension), Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation and Manpower
Development and Training and a Procurement Officer;

      (j)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States each to
cause their ADPs to sell fruit trees at prices that will allow the
recovery of at least (A) their operational costs in the first year
of the Project Period and (B) their full costs as from the fourth
year of the Project Period;

      (k)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States to cause
their ADPS to (i) update annually their Human Resource Development
Plans and (ii) furnish to the Bank by January 31 of each year
starting in 1992 an annual training program satisfactory to the
Bank;

      (l)   Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto States acting
through their ADPS to conclude by March 31, 1992 agreements
satisfactory to the Bank with institutions acceptable to the Bank
for assistance in the carrying out of adaptive research and
planning, and monitoring and evaluation under the Project; and

      (m)   Bauchi State to: (i) carry out its components of the
Project through the Agricultural Development Program Unit of BASIRDA
acting under the direction of the Bauchi Agricultural Development
Program Executive Committee (BADPEC); (ii) reconstitute BADPEC with
Bauchi State’s Governor as Chairman of BADPEC; (iii) include as
members of BADPEC two representatives of FMAWRRD; (iv) carry out
jointly with FMAWRRD and the Bank by June 30, 1993 a review of the

organizational arrangements supporting the carrying out of Bauchi
State’s components of the Project; and (v) by December 31, 1993 put
into effect recommendations emanating from the said review.

