d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3451 UNI

               (National Fadama Development Project)

                              between

                   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 25, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3451 UNI

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1992, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower will carry out the Project with the
assistance of Bauchi, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kano, Sokoto and other States
of Nigeria which have met the eligibility criteria set out in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the said States being hereinafter
together referred to as the eligible States);

      (C)   the Borrower will relend to the eligible States under
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and the eligible States proceeds of the Loan required by the
eligible States to carry out the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means an account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the eligible States pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

      (c)   "eligible States" means Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi,
Sokoto and any other States of Nigeria which have met the
eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "National Fadama Facility" means the facility referred
to in Part E.1 of the Project;

      (e)   "National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee" means
the committee referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "FMAWRRD" means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development;

      (g)   "APMEU" means the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit of the Borrower;

      (h)   "FACU" means the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
of the Borrower;

      (i)   "Project Period" means the period between the date of
effectiveness of this Agreement and the Closing Date; and

      (j)   "FUAs" means the Fadama Users Associations referred to
in Part C (1) of the Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the

terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty seven million five hundred thousand dollars
($67,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, or cause to be opened and maintained, in dollars
a special deposit account for FACU, APMEU and for each eligible
State in one or more commercial banks on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
a Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall with the assistance of the
eligible States carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall under subsidiary loan agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and the eligible States on
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank:

            (i)   relend to Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi and Sokoto
                  States of Nigeria out of the proceeds of the Loan
                  allocated to Categories (1) through (5) in
                  Schedule 1 to this Agreement (A) an initial
                  amount of $3,500,000 equivalent each and, (B) on
                  a first-come first-served basis, such additional
                  amounts (not to exceed in the aggregate for all
                  the eligible States $37,500,000 equivalent) as
                  the Borrower shall determine; and

           (ii)   relend to eligible States (other than the States
                  mentioned in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph)
                  the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category
                  (6) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall, inter alia,
require the eligible States to:

            (i)   pay annual interest on, and repay the principal
                  of, the proceeds of the Loan relent to them on
                  the same terms and conditions as, with respect to
                  payment of interest and other charges and
                  repayment of principal as shall apply under the
                  provisions of this Agreement to the Borrower;

           (ii)   provide in their respective budgets funds
                  adequate to cover their respective counterpart
                  contributions to the costs of the Project
                  including the salary costs of all existing staff
                  of the eligible States assigned to the Project;

          (iii)   prepare with the assistance of FACU and send to
                  the Bank each year no later than August 31 of
                  each such year an annual program showing
                  equipment to be purchased, areas to be drilled,
                  and Fadama infrastructure to be constructed,
                  under the Project;

           (iv)   have its records and accounts relating to the
                  Project for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

            (v)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested;

           (vi)   prepare and furnish to the Bank by-laws
                  satisfactory to the Bank of the Fadama Users
                  Associations (FUAs) which shall include
                  appropriate provisions for revenue generation by
                  the FUAs;

          (vii)   ensure that all the FUAs participating in the
                  Project are to the extent practicable allowed to
                  operate autonomously in the exercise of their
                  functions; and

          (viii)  furnish to the Bank every six months a report on
                  the activities of FUAs under the Project.

      (d)   The Borrower shall establish a National Fadama Facility
Coordinating Committee (NFFCC), together with its Secretariat, in a
form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank. NFFCC
shall be administered by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural Development (FMAWRRD).

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall provide in its budget funds
adequate to cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the
Project including the salary costs of all existing staff of the
Borrower assigned to the Project. The Borrower and the Bank estimate
such counterpart contributions to amount, in 1991 prices, over the
Project Period to $4,700,000 equivalent.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out by March 31, 1994,
jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review to determine progress made
in the carrying out of the Project.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall require as a condition
precedent to any State of Nigeria participating in the Project the
meeting by that State of the eligibility criteria set out in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the actions described in Schedule 7 to this Agreement to
the satisfaction of the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be

maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the eligible States shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   at least one eligible State has signed the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and

      (b)   the Borrower has furnished to the Bank draft bidding
documents satisfactory to the Bank for use in contracts for
drilling, import of pumps and road construction required for the
first year of the Project.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to
in Section 6.01 (a) above has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Project State concerned, and is legally binding upon the said
Project State in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Honorable Minister of Finance and Economic
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat
            Ikoyi, Lagos
            Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FEDMINFIN                 21248
                  Lagos

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  By /s/ Zubair M. Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works for           12,900,000
    Fadama irrigation:

    (a)  Washbores                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures

    (b)  Tubewells                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                15% of local
                                                expenditures

(2) Civil works               10,000,000        100% of foreign
    (Fadama                                     expenditures and
    Infrastructure)                             90% of local
                                                expenditures

(3) Vehicles and               5,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment (other                            expenditures and
    than pumps)                                 100% (ex-factory
                                                cost)

(4) Pumps                     25,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% (ex-factory
                                                cost)

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Technical
    assistance:

    (a)  Monitoring,           4,000,000        100% of foreign

         studies and                            expenditures and
         training                               90% of local
         (excluding                             expenditures
         Technical
         Services
         contract
         staff costs)

    (b   Technical               600,000        100% of foreign
         Services                               expenditures and
         Contract                               90% of local
         staff costs                            expenditures

(6) National Fadama            5,000,000
    Facility loans for:

    (a)  Washbores                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures

    (b)  Tubewells                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                15% of local
                                                expenditures

    (c)  Civil works                            100% of foreign
         (Fadama                                expenditures and
         infrastructure)                        90% of local
                                                expenditures

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

    (d)  Vehicles,                              100% of foreign
         equipment and                          expenditures and
         pumps                                  100% (ex-factory
                                                cost)

(7) Unallocated                5,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                67,500,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5) above on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1991;

      (b)   expenditures made by Bauchi State of Nigeria (Bauchi
State) unless Bauchi State has, in accordance with Schedule 6.A to
this Agreement: (i) reconstituted its Agricultural Development
Program Executive Committee (BADPEC); and (ii) assigned to BADPEC
responsibility for overseeing the execution of Bauchi State’s

components of the Project;

      (c)   expenditures under Category (6) above unless NFFCC
(together with its Secretariat) has been established in accordance
with Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; and

      (d)   expenditures made by any eligible State unless that
State has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and met the
eligibility criteria set out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (i) the
construction of about 50,000 shallow tubewells in the Fadama lands
for small-scale irrigation; (ii) simplifying drilling technology for
shallow tubewells; (iii) the construction of Fadama infrastructure;
(iv) the organization of Fadama farmers for irrigation management,
cost recovery and better access to credit, marketing and other
services; (v) the carrying out of aquifer studies; (vi) the
monitoring and upgrading of irrigation technologies; and (vii) the
completion of full environmental assessment of future Fadama
development.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Shallow Tubewells

(1)   Development in Bauchi, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kano and Sokoto States
of Nigeria of about (i) 18,000 shallow tubewells by washboring; and
(ii) 24,000 shallow tubewells by drilling.

(2)   Development in other eligible States of Nigeria of about (i)
4,500 shallow tubewells by washboring; and (ii) 3,500 shallow
tubewells by drilling.

Part B:     Fadama Infrastructure

(1)   Construction by contract in the five eligible States referred
to in Part A.1 above of about 405 km. of access roads and 135 km. of
Fadama roads and rehabilitation of about 270 km. of existing tracks
including the installation of about 135 culverts in depressions and
reconstruction of approach roads.

(2)   Construction by the said Eligible States alongside the Fadama
roads of about 78 shelters, 45 drying and storage sheds and 3
evaporative cooling facilities for vegetables.

(3)   Completion of the spill way and distribution canals for the
Watari Irrigation Scheme in Kano State of Nigeria.

Part C:   Institutional Development

(1)   Organization by State Implementation Agencies (SIAs) of
village-based Fadama Users Associations (FUAs) to assist in: (i) the
identification and selection of Fadama farmers for the Project; (ii)
overseeing activities relating to drilling, construction and
maintenance of Fadama infrastructure; (iii) ensuring the recovery
from the users of tubewells, pumps and other facilities installed
under the Project of the full costs of such facilities; and (iv)
monitoring available water resources.

(2)   The carrying out by SIAs of cadastral surveys including the
recording of land title and other relevant information on a suitable
data base for easy retrieval and updating.

(3)   Establishment of a Fadama administration program satisfactory
to the Bank including the employment of suitably qualified experts
to assist eligible States in the administration of drilling and road

construction, irrigation engineering, irrigation agronomy and the
establishment and operation of Fadama farmers’ organizations.

Part D:     Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation

(1)   The carrying out of planning, monitoring and evaluation
programs at the Federal and State levels including: (i) a full
environmental assessment by the Federal Agricultural Coordinating
Unit (FACU) of future Fadama development in the eligible States;
(ii) physical monitoring of shallow aquifer levels and soil and
water resources by SIAs acting in conjunction with FUAs; (iii) the
carrying out by the SIAs’ Monitoring and Evaluation Units assisted
by the Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU)
of baseline surveys and annual surveys to measure cropping
intensities, yields and production, crop inputs and farm income of
different types of irrigation; (iv) preparation by APMEU of annual
reports on Fadama development; (v) development by the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development
(FMAWRRD) of systems for monitoring, planning, allocating and
regulating Nigeria’s water resources at the national level; and (vi)
monitoring by APMEU of performance under the Project.

(2)   Establishment for FMAWRRD of field and office facilities for
regular measurement of stream flows and ground water status in
Nigeria; and (ii) strengthening of FMAWRRD staff in the collection
and analysis of data including the recruitment of an experienced
hydrologist to assist FMAWRRD in the establishment, and its local
staff in the operation, of the monitoring facilities and FMWR’s
analytic system.

Part E:     National Fadama Facility

(1)   The establishment of a facility (the National Fadama Facility)
in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Bank to assist
Fadama development in States meeting the eligibility criteria set
out in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (other than Bauchi, Jigawa,
Kebbi, Kano and Sokoto States of Nigeria) as well as the Federal
Capital Territory of Abuja, including the making of loans to
eligible States and the said Capital Territory for approved Fadama
development proposals.

(2)   Provision of vehicles, computers, office equipment and
furniture for the National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1997                          1,230,000
May 1, 1998                               1,280,000
November 1, 1998                          1,330,000
May 1, 1999                               1,380,000
November 1, 1999                          1,435,000
May 1, 2000                               1,490,000
November 1, 2000                          1,545,000
May 1, 2001                               1,605,000
November 1, 2001                          1,665,000
May 1, 2002                               1,730,000
November 1, 2002                          1,800,000
May 1, 2003                               1,870,000
November 1, 2003                          1,940,000
May 1, 2004                               2,015,000
November 1, 2004                          2,095,000
May 1, 2005                               2,175,000
November 1, 2005                          2,260,000

May 1, 2006                               2,345,000
November 1, 2006                          2,435,000
May 1, 2007                               2,530,000
November 1, 2007                          2,630,000
May 1, 2008                               2,730,000
November 1, 2008                          2,835,000
May 1, 2009                               2,945,000
November 1, 2009                          3,060,000
May 1, 2010                               3,175,000
November 1, 2010                          3,300,000
May 1, 2011                               3,425,000
November 1, 2011                          3,560,000
May 1, 2012                               3,685,000

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                           Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    (i)   Bidders for works included in Part A of the Project

            shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of
            the Guidelines.

     (ii)   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
            grouped in bid packages estimated to cost an amount
            equivalent to $200,000 or more each.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors

      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract and such wash bore drilling and infrastructure works as the
Borrower and the Bank shall determine up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $8,300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of prequalification:

      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3 of said Appendix shall
be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                         Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to:
(i) Bauchi, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kano or Sokoto State of Nigeria an amount
equivalent to $300,000 each to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and (ii) FACU and APMEU an amount
equivalent to $200,000 each to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to said
paragraph 3 (a).

2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been

                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into a Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                       Eligibility Criteria

      To be eligible to participate in the Project a State must
have, as necessary, fulfilled the following:

A.    State Implementation Agencies

      The State must have: (i) established sustainable agencies in
its ministry of agriculture to assist it in carrying out the

Project; and (ii) in the case of Bauchi State, reconstituted its
Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee (BADPEC) in a
form and with membership and functions satisfactory to the Bank
including the assignment to BADPEC of responsibility for overseeing
the execution of Bauchi State’s components of the Project.

B.    Management and Finance

(1)   The State must in the case of the National Fadama Facility
have in place in management positions qualified and experienced
staff to oversee the activities to be supported by the Facility.

(2)   The State must have drawn down at least 75% of World Bank loan
funds available to it for the Fadama development proposed for
financing under the Project.

(3)   The State must: (i) have in place a fully trained procurement
officer; (ii) have followed good procurement practices; and (iii)
have furnished the Bank with satisfactory procurement schedules
relating thereto.

(4)   The State must have observed all of its obligations (including
those relating to financial audits and submission of reports) under
agreements with the Bank.

C.    Fadama Development

      The State must have: (i) completed shallow aquifer studies
establishing the existence of a potential for Fadama irrigation in
the State; (ii) identified the areas in which drilling will take
place; and (iii) established FUAs.

D.    Management Development and Training

      The State must have prepared a long-term human resource
development plan which clearly identifies the annual training
schedules for all major activities included in the plan.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                      Actions referred to in
                  Section 3.06 of this Agreement

1.    The Borrower shall require all Fadama development proposals
sent by an eligible State for financing under the National Fadama
Facility to be first appraised by the Borrower’s Federal
Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and then reviewed by the
National Fadama Facility Coordinating Committee which, if it
approves the proposal, shall send the first five of all such
proposals to the Bank for the Bank’s further review and approval.

2.    The Borrower shall require all Fadama development proposals
estimated to cost more than $1,000,000 equivalent to be jointly
appraised by the Borrower and the Bank.

3.    The Borrower shall cause each eligible State to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a plan for full cost recovery from farmers
participating in Fadama development under the Project.

