d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER  3436 IN

         (Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project)

                              between

                               INDIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated February 14, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3436 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1992, between INDIA,
acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Power
Finance Corporation Limited (the Corporation) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Corporation the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date

herewith between the Bank and the Corporation;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
and

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-
lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k)
is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have
      arisen under which any further withdrawals under
      the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
      of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Corporation" means Power Finance Corporation
Limited, a company registered under the Companies Act,
1956 of the Borrower;

      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and the Corporation of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Corpora-
tion pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (d)   "Operational Policy Statement" means the policy
statement of the Corporation dated November 12, 1990, as
amended from time to time;

      (e)   "Power Utility" means a State Electricity
Board, a government undertaking or a government company
engaged in the business of power generation and/or
transmission under The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 of
the Borrower; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of two hundred sixty-five million dollars ($265,0-
00,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of

the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1997 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Quali-fied Borrowings determined in
respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month
                   period ending on the date immediately
                   preceding each date specified in Section
                   2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                   the Interest Period in which this Agree-
                   ment is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                   cost, as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                   the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                   excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                   (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
                   after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                   rates determined otherwise than as pro-
                   vided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)        "Semester" means the first six
                         months or the second six months of
                         a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less

than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
            the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
            each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the pre-
            ceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
            Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
            shall pay interest accrued on the principal
            amount outstanding during the preceding Inter-
            est Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
            end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
            Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
            period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
            1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause the
Corporation to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Corporation therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Corporation to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Loan to the Corporation under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Corpora-
tion, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
that the Corporation shall pay interest on the principal
amount so relent and withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate of not less than 11-1/2% per annum,
repay the principal amount so relent over a period of 15
years, included therein a period of grace of 3 years, and
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Sub-sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the
Corporation pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall have the Special
Account for each financial year audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles, consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each year
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, prior to the
beginning of each financial year communicate to the
Corporation a firm commitment on the amount the Corpora-
tion is authorized to raise in the domestic bond market
in the following year, including the type of bonds to be
issued and estimated dates of such issues.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)   The Corporation shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Corporation will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The Memorandum and Articles of Association of
the Corporation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Corporation to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of the Corporation or for the
suspension of its operations.

      (e)   The Operational Policy Statement shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or
the financial condition of the Corporation or its ability
to carry out the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
the Corporation.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Corporation, and is legally
binding upon the Corporation in accordance with its
terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Corporation and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
the Corporation in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under
Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, Department of
Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condi-
tions:

      For the Borrower:

            Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                   New Delhi

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for

             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INDIA

                         By /a/ Lalit Mansingh
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated
                             (Expressed in          % of
                                Dollar          Expenditures
      Category                Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Equipment and            248,000,000     100% of
foreign
      materials                                expendi-
tures, 100%
                                               of local
expendi-
                                               tures (ex-
factory
                          cost) and 75% of
                        local expenditures
                           for other items
                          procured locally

(2)   Consultants’      7,000,000     100%
      services and
      training

(3)   Unallocated               10,000,000
                               ___________

         TOTAL                 265,000,000
                               ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen
the Corporation and selected Power Utilities; (ii)
improve utilization of existing power facilities; (iii)
mitigate the adverse environ-mental impact of thermal
plants; and (iv) provide technical assistance to improve
preparation of power projects in India.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:     Institutional Strengthening of the Corporation

      The carrying out of a program of institutional
development for the Corporation to provide specialized
services, equipment, software and training for the
purposes of:

            (i)   enhancement of management information
                  system;

           (ii)   development of administrative manuals and
                  procedures to guide internal operations;

          (iii)         development of manuals for project
                        appraisal and monitoring;

           (iv)   staff training in financial management;
                  utility management; project management;
                  power economics; upgrading of power
                  plants, transmission and distribution;
                  and planning and design of distribution
                  systems; and

            (v)   establishment of a unit for sector stud-
                  ies.

Part B:     Preinvestment Operations

      The carrying out of preinvestment activities for
project preparation, studies and training aimed at
enhancing the performance of the Power Utilities through
utilization of technical assistance and the establishment
of a Preinvestment Fund.

Part C:     Transmission and Distribution Systems

      The construction of transmission and distribution
systems through implementation of specific schemes of
sub-transmission and associated distribution works in
urban areas, and of transmission lines and sub-stations
by the Power Utilities.

Part D:     Environmental Upgrading of Power Plants

      The carrying out of studies, engineering and works
to upgrade the environmental operating conditions of
selected power plants.

Part E:     System Renovation

      The carrying out of a program of improvement and
modernization of thermal stations to supplement the
rehabilitation investments during the Seventh Five-Year
Plan (1985 - 1990) of the Borrower, and high-priority
upgrading of other system components.

Part F:     Institutional Strengthening of Power Utilities

      The carrying out of a program of institutional
development for Power Utilities, including, inter alia,
improvements in operation and management, provision of
technical and training services, and acquisition of data
processing equipment and software.

Part G:     Billing and Collections

      The carrying out of a program of improvements in the
billing and collection systems of the Power Utilities
including, inter alia, studies, equipment, software and
technical assistance for estab-lishing the necessary
systems and procedures.

                  *                 *                 *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in
dollars)*

August 15, 1997                                       4,835,000
February 15, 1998                                     5,020,000
August 15, 1998                                       5,215,000
February 15, 1999                                     5,415,000
August 15, 1999                                       5,625,000
February 15, 2000                                     5,840,000
August 15, 2000                                       6,065,000
February 15, 2001                                     6,300,000
August 15, 2001                                       6,545,000
February 15, 2002                                     6,800,000
August 15, 2002                                       7,060,000
February 15, 2003                                     7,335,000
August 15, 2003                                       7,615,000
February 15, 2004                                     7,910,000
August 15, 2004                                       8,220,000
February 15, 2005                                     8,535,000
August 15, 2005                                       8,865,000
February 15, 2006                                     9,210,000
August 15, 2006                                       9,565,000
February 15, 2007                                     9,935,000

August 15, 2007                                      10,315,000
February 15, 2008                                    10,715,000
August 15, 2008                                      11,130,000
February 15, 2009                                    11,560,000
August 15, 2009                                      12,005,000
February 15, 2010                                    12,470,000
August 15, 2010                                      12,955,000
February 15, 2011                                    13,455,000
August 15, 2011                                      13,975,000
February 15, 2012                                    14,510,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
      lents determined as of the respective dates of
      withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
      and 4.03.

                       Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, the premium payable on the principal amount of any
maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percent-
age specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate     (ex-
pressed
                                   as a percentage per
annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
the
                                   day of prepayment     multi-
plied by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and

services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $14,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Ac-
                   count, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                   Bank requests for deposits into the
                   Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Bank the documents and other evi-
                   dence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                   of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenish-
                   ment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expendi-
                   tures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-

ment; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justi-
fied by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

