d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3465 ME

                 (Agricultural Technology Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                        Dated June 17, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3465 ME

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1992 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA,
S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Bank has received a letter from the Guarantor, dated
December 6, 1991 describing its objectives and strategy for
agricultural technology management and implementation (hereinafter
Strategy Statement);

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the

Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
      several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
      to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
      the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Annual Work Program" means an annual program to be
presented to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement;

      (b)   "CENID" means an INIFAP Disciplinary Research Center
("Centro de Investigacion Disciplinaria");

      (c)   "CIFAP" means an INIFAP Center for Crop, Livestock, and
Forestry Research ("Centro de Investigacion Forestal y
Agropecuario");

      (d)   "CONACYT" means the National Council of Science and
Technology ("Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia");

      (e)   "DGESAF" means the General Directorate of Studies for
the Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry Sector of SARH ("Direccion
General de Estudios del Sector Agropecuario y Forestal");

      (f)   "Eligible Districts" means the Rural Development
Districts (as hereinafter defined) listed in the letter from the
Guarantor to the Bank of even date with this Agreement;

      (g)   "Estimated Implementation Indicators" means the set of
indicators referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement;

      (h)   "Executing Agencies" means INIFAP and DGESAF, and
"Executing Agency" means any one of such agencies;

      (i)   "High risk transgenic organisms" has the meaning set
forth in the Seeds Law of the Guarantor ("Ley Sobre Produccion,
Certificacion y Comercio de Semillas, published in Diario Oficial,
July 15, 1991;

      (j)   "Impact Indicators" means the set of indicators referred
to in Section 3.05 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (k)   "INIFAP" means the Guarantor’s National Institute for
Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research within SARH,
("Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y

Agropecuarias");

      (l)   "Legislation" means the Guarantor’s laws and any other
legal provisions, including leyes and decretos, related to agricul-
tural research and extension;

      (m)   "MIS" means a unified information and communications
management system to be designed under the Project for INIFAP’s
utilization in the compilation of agricultural research management
data;

      (n)   "Project Unit" means the unit established within INIFAP
referred to in Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (o)   "Research Grants Committee" means the committee referred
to in Section 3.19 of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (p)   "Rural Development District" means a Distrito de
Desarrollo Rural established by the Guarantor’s Executive Branch,
through SARH, pursuant to Ley de Distritos de Desarollo Rural dated
December 28, 1987 and published in the Guarantor’s Official Bulletin
on January 28, 1988, as such law is amended from time to time;

      (q)   "SARH" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat of Agriculture
and Hydraulic Resources ("Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos");

      (r)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (s)   "SPP" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat for Programing
and Budgeting ("Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto"); and

      (t)   "Rules of Operation" means the Reglas de Operacion of
CONACYT issued on January 30, 1992.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Banco de Mexico on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of

Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, provid-
ing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of the Project; and (ii)
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the

Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained, records and separate accounts for the Special Account
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have such records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent and
                  qualified auditors;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts as well as the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any
information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with the
Guarantor’s obligations under Section 4.01 (c) of the Guarantee
Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Legislation, or any part thereof, shall have been modified
or its implementation shall have been discontinued in a manner
which, in the opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely
affect the implementation of the Project or the attainment of the
objectives of the Project.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement shall have been executed; and

      (b)   the Guarantor shall have entered into agreements
satisfactory to the Bank as set forth in Section 3.15 of the
Guarantee Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the agreements referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) above have been executed and delivered on behalf of
the parties thereto and are legally binding upon them in accordance
with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date September 16, 1992 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI)
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre Cuatro, Piso 8
            01020 Mexico, D.F.

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City               Mexico City

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico D. F., United Mexican
States, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                  By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villarreal
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Civil Works               7,100,000        70%

(2)  Farms, computing,        33,800,000        80%
     communications
     equipment

(3)  Vehicles                 15,600,000        46%

(4)  Laboratory                8,200,000        80%
     equipment

(5)  Technical                 9,200,000        80%
     assistance

(6)  Training and             44,600,000        85%
     studies

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(7) Recurrent costs            6,415,000        Incremental
    under Parts A and                           expenditures
    C of the Project                            implementation
                                                as follows:
                                                100% up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of 250,000; 75%
                                                for aggregate
                                                amounts between
                                                250,000 and
                                                1,430,000; 50%
                                                for aggregate
                                                amounts between
                                                1,430,000 and
                                                3,455,000; and
                                                25% for aggregate
                                                amounts between

                                                3,455,000 and
                                                6,415,000

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(8) Recurrent costs            4,385,000        Incremental
    under Part B                                expenditures as
    of the Project                              follows: 100% up
                                                to an aggregate
                                                amount of 765,000;
                                                75% for aggregate
                                                amounts between
                                                765,000 and
                                                2,165,000; 50%
                                                for aggregate
                                                amounts between
                                                2,165,000 and
                                                3,305,000; and
                                                25% for aggregate
                                                amounts between
                                                3,305,000 and
                                                4,385,000

(8) Unallocated               20,700,000
                             ___________

          TOTAL              150,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   "Recurrent Costs under Parts A and C of the Project"
means: (1) salaries paid to INIFAP personnel on a staffing plan
accepted by the Bank; and (2) direct operating costs incurred by
INIFAP, and "incremental expenditures" for such disbursement
category means expenditures for Recurrent Costs under Parts A and C
of the Project over and above the amount of such costs incurred in
the year preceding the first year of Project implementation; and

      (b)   "Recurrent Costs under Part B of the Project" means: (1)
salaries paid to SARH personnel carrying out extension services; and
(2) direct operating costs incurred by SARH in connection with the
provision of extension services and "incremental expenditures" for
such disbursement category means expenditures for Recurrent Costs
under Part B of the Project over and above the amount of such costs
incurred in the year preceding the first year of Project implementa-
tion in an Eligible District.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures under
Categories (1), (2), (4), (5) and (6) for Parts A and C of the
Project before that date but after June 17, 1991.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to improve agricultural
productivity and growth through: (i) the generation of new agricul-
tural technology through research; (ii) the effective extension of
new and existing technologies to producers; and (iii) the improve-
ment of the institutional capacity of INIFAP.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon

from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Technology Generation through Research

1.    Crop Research

      New technology research in plant breeding, product quality,
agronomy and crop management, soil fertility and conservation, seed
technology, biotechnology, genetic resources and integrated pest
management for the following crops: basic food grains and oilseeds
(maize, beans, rainfed rice, rainfed wheat, barley, safflower, and
sunflower), tropical fruits, temperate fruits, and vegetables.

2.    Livestock Research

      (a)   Technology research geared towards improving productivi-
ty in primary production in the areas of milk and beef production,
smallholder production, small ruminants, and forages.

      (b)   Livestock research in microbiology, parasitology and
physiology.

3.    Forestry Research

      Research in priority areas including forest management,
betterment of tropical species, multiple species use, forest
conservation and restoration, processing technology, agroforestry,
and watershed management.

4.    Natural Resource Management

      Studies in soil conservation techniques, water management, and
related environmental issues, all with a view to enable INIFAP to
generate technologies which are environmentally sound, conserve
natural resources, and improve the efficiency of their use.

5.    Training for Research

      Improvement of academic and technical skills of INIFAP
scientists and staff through academic study in Mexico and abroad and
through in-service programs. All training will be to support the
activities described in Subparts 1 through 4 above.

6.    Improvement of Research Facilities

      Rehabilitation, maintenance, and minor new construction of
CIFAP and CENID field stations and laboratories.

Part B:     Technology Transfer through Extension

      Improve and expand the training and visit system of extension
in the Eligible Districts through:

      (a)   staff and producer training in crops (basic grains,
oilseeds, fruits and vegetables), livestock, and forestry for small
and medium producers, in collaboration with INIFAP;

      (b)   on-farm demonstrations in collaboration with INIFAP;

      (c)   creation and strengthening of producers’ organizations
in crop, livestock, and forestry production and management activi-
ties;

      (d)   improvement of the efficiency of extension services
provided by the Rural Development Districts through the provision of
equipment, productivity incentives, and rehabilitation and construc-
tion of field facilities;

      (e)   strengthening of DGESAF services through technical
assistance, training, studies, and improvements in equipment; and

      (f)   improvement and expansion of soil and water conservation

extension work.

Part C:     Institutional Development for Research

1.    Improvement of libraries and scientific information systems

      Improvement of INIFAP’s libraries and scientific information
systems through:

      (a)   updating of collections and of computer and communica-
tions facilities in order to improve the receipt, cataloguing,
indexing and transmittal of information to scientists in the field;
and

      (b)   design and operation of an integrated library system.

2.    Improvement of research management

      Improvement of planning and budgeting procedures and in
setting and managing research priorities through:

      (a)   design and operation of an appropriate management
information system;

      (b)   a study of the environmental costs of agriculture;

      (c)   studies of the productivity impact of agricultural
research and extension;

      (d)   academic and in-service training for research manage-
ment; and

      (e)   operation of the Project Unit.

3.    Other research support

      Improvement of INIFAP’s capacity to mobilize non-federal and
private funding, to collaborate with other research institutions, to
support research networks, to train staff, and to upgrade computing
and communications facilities through:

      (a)   review and improvement of the legal, financial and
administrative aspects of resource mobilization;

      (b)   support of collaborative research through: (i) studies
by national institutions outside INIFAP; and (ii) the provision of
research grants on a competitive basis;

      (c)   increased collaboration in on-farm activities with the
extension service through, inter alia, the provision of training and
vehicles;

      (d)   the provision of planning, meeting facilities and short-
term technical assistance support to scientific networks; and

      (e)   the expansion and upgrading of INIFAP’s computing and
communications equipment.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

December 1, 1995                                3,905,000.00
June 1, 1996                                    4,055,000.00

December 1, 1996                                4,215,000.00
June 1, 1997                                    4,375,000.00
December 1, 1997                                4,545,000.00
June 1, 1998                                    4,720,000.00
December 1, 1998                                4,905,000.00
June 1, 1999                                    5,090,000.00
December 1, 1999                                5,290,000.00
June 1, 2000                                    5,495.000.00
December 1, 2000                                5,705,000.00
June 1, 2001                                    5,925,000.00
December 1, 2001                                6,155,000.00
June 1, 2002                                    6,395,000.00
December 1, 2002                                6,640,000.00
June 1, 2003                                    6,895,000.00
December 1, 2003                                7,165,000.00
June 1, 2004                                    7,440,000.00
December 1, 2004                                7,730,000.00
June 1, 2005                                    8,025,000.00
December 1, 2005                                8,335,000.00
June 1, 2006                                    8,660,000.00
December 1, 2006                                8,995,000.00
June 1, 2007                                    9,340,000.00

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be

procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    All vehicles shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 per contract or per bid package, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000
per contract or per bid package, but more than $50,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank up to an aggregate amount of $12,000,000 equiva-
lent.

3.    Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers,
eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     General Provisions

      All procurement of goods and works, whether or not interna-
tional competitive bidding applies, shall take place using standard
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.

Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (1) each contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (2) each contract for
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more; and
(3) the first three contracts for works (costing the equivalent of
less than $1,500,000) and goods procured under the procedures
referred to in Parts C.1 and C.2, respectively, of this Schedule,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall

not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Guarantor in the execution of the
Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible

                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

