d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3467 POL

             (Private Enterprise Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                      POLISH DEVELOPMENT BANK

                        Dated July 17, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3467 POL

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POLISH DEVELOPMENT
BANK (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Guarantor intends to agree with the Commission of
the European Communities (the EC) a grant (the EC Grant) in an
amount of 6,000,000 European Currency Unit (ECU) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EC Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the

Borrower and the EC; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Beneficiary" means any enterprise to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (b)   "Category" means a Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the loan as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "Charter" means the Charter of the Polish Development
Bank dated October 11, 1990;

      (d)   "Deutsche Mark" means Deutsche Mark in the currency of
the Federal Republic of Germany.

      (e)   "Participating Bank" means any lending institution with
which the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;

      (f)   "Special Account A" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Special Account B" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Special Accounts" means Special Account A and Special
Account B, and "Special Account" means Special Account A when such
term is used in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and Special Account B
when such term is used in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;

      (i)   "Statement of Policy" means PDB’s statement of lending
and investment policy as adopted and approved by the Directors of
PDB on May 20, 1991;

      (j)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made, out
of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan, by a Participating
Bank to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;

      (k)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (l)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any agreement to

be entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Bank
pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (m)   "Subsidiary Finance" means any loan provided under a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and

      (n)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, such Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, such Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each

                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project,
and take all action required on its part to enable Part B of the
Project to be carried out by the Guarantor, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, admini-
strative, financial and economic practices, and to enable the
Guarantor to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; shall conduct its operations and affairs in accordance
with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and the
Statement of Policy; and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services, staff and other resources required for
the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule

5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to the Guarantor the equivalent in
dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on
account of the cost of goods and services under Part B of the
Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Category (2) under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall include, without limitation, terms pursuant to which the
Guarantor shall undertake to: (i) repay the principal amount so made
available over a period of 17 years, including a grace period of
five years; and (ii) pay interest on such principal amount,
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal at
least to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the
Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus an additional
charge.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing Agreements in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such Agreement, or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, the use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and main-
tenance, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project, shall be
carried out by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 of the
Guarantee Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the
Project and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements), including
                   those for Special Account A, and the records and
                   accounts for the separate accounts referred to
                   in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audited
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, in respect of payments and repayments to the
Borrower under Subsidiary Financing Agreements, open and thereafter
maintain a separate account on its books in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement for each currency
so paid and repaid, to which it shall credit each repayment of
principal and payment of interest and other charges under any
Subsidiary Financing Agreement upon receipt thereof. The Borrower
shall utilize all amounts so credited, to the extent they are not
yet required to meet the Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank
under this Agreement, exclusively to finance, through the
Participating Banks, specific development projects similar to the
Sub-projects.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against exchange
rate and interest rate risks arising from its operations under the
Project.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      (b)   The EC Agreement shall have failed to come into force by
May 31, 1992, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank, that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (c)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been signed by the parties
thereto.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Polish Development Bank
            00-680 Warsaw
            Zurawia Str. 47/49
            Poland
                                           Telex:

                                             812698

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                         POLISH DEVELOPMENT BANK

                         By /s/ J. Tomorowicz
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Under Part A
    of the Project:

    (a)  Goods                43,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

    (b)  Civil works           5,000,000        40%

    (c)  Consultants’          3,000,000        100%
         services and
         training

    (d)  Capitalized           4,000,000        Amounts capi-
         interest                               talized pursuant
                                                to paragraph 3
                                                of Part A of

                                                Annex B to
                                                Schedule 5 to
                                                the Loan Agreement

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(2) Under Part B
    of the Project:

    (a)  Goods                   500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

    (b)  Consultants’          1,500,000        100%
         services and
         training

(3) Unallocated                3,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                60,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in accelerating
the privatization of the Guarantor’s economy through: (i) financing
of private enterprise investments, and (ii) strengthening of
institutional capabilities required for the promotion of the private
sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

Part B:

      The financing through loans by the Borrower of specific
development projects to restructure the operations, upgrade and
expand the facilities, cover the permanent working capital
requirements and strengthen the organization, management and
operations of existing or new private enterprises.

      The design and carrying out of programs to strengthen
institutional capabilities and to promote the efficient development
of the private sector, including:

(1)   (a)   The carrying out of a program to further strengthen the
management and operations of the Office of the Undersecretary for
Business Promotion of the Guarantor’s Ministry of Industry and Trade
and the capabilities of said Office in monitoring and evaluating the
implementation of the strategies referred to in sub-paragraph (b)
hereof; (b) the carrying out by said Office of studies on strategies
to further develop the private sector; and (c) the provision of
technical assistance and equipment required therefor.

(2)   (a)   The carrying out of a program to further strengthen the
management and operations of the Project Support Unit of the
Cooperation Fund of the Guarantor’s Ministry of European Integration
and Foreign Aid Coordination; (b) the carrying out of a program to
assist local organizations responsible for the promotion of private
sector activities in the design and implementation of local private
investment promotion programs and business training programs; and
(c) the provision of technical assistance and equipment required
therefor.

(3)   The provision of grants to local organizations for specific
development projects to provide support services and business
training to enterprises, including the provision of equipment
required therefor.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 1 and November 1

      beginning November 1, 1997           2,500,000
      through May 1, 2009

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88

      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Under Part A of the Project:

      (a)   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)   Works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000 per contract may be purchased in accordance with the
established commercial practice of the purchaser, at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.

2.   Under Part B of the Project:

      (a)   Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)   Works may be purchased in accordance with the
established commercial practice of the purchaser, at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency.

3.    Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees are of a
proprietary nature, may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $2,000,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the

Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of said Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 or 7, as the case may be, to
this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   ensure that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-
loans will be made through the Participating Bank to Beneficiaries
under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each such Participating Bank on terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include,
without limitation, those set forth or referred to in Annex A to
this Schedule; and

      (b)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in such manner as to protect its interests and the
interests of the Bank and to achieve the purposes of the Project,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such agreement.

2.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   coordinate and monitor the overall execution of Part A
of the Project and supervise the carrying out by the Participating
Banks of their obligations pursuant to their respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreements, in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (b)   take all measures to ensure that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans, or any
one Sub-loan (i) to any one Beneficiary, shall not exceed the
equivalent of $4,000,000, and (ii) for any one Sub-project, shall
not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.

                       ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 5

                      Terms and Conditions of

                  Subsidiary Financing Agreements

      Further to the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Annex shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 1 (a) of said
Schedule.

A.    Terms:

1.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Finance to be made
available by the Borrower to a Participating Bank under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be:

      (a)   denominated in dollars, Deutsche Mark, or other
currencies as referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement with the
portion thereof denominated in dollars being the sum total of the
Sub-loans made out of its proceeds and denominated in dollars; with
the portion thereof denominated in Deutsche Mark being the sum total
of the Sub-loans made out of its proceeds and denominated in
Deutsche Mark; and with the portion thereof denominated in another
currency being the sum total of the Sub-loans made out of its
proceeds and denominated in such currency; and

      (b)   equal to the equivalent of the aggregate amount of (i)
principal of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof, and
(ii) interest payments on such Sub-loans capitalized as provided in
paragraph 3 of this Part.

2.    The portion of each Subsidiary Finance denominated in:
(a) dollars shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each
six-month period commencing on January 1 and July 1 of each calendar
year, (i) at a fixed rate or (ii) at a rate equal to LIBOR, in each
case plus a margin, as shall be calculated by the Borrower on the
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; (b) Deutsche Mark shall
be charged, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, interest, during each six-month
period commencing on January 1 and July 1 of each calendar year, (i)
at a fixed rate or (ii) at a rate equal to FIBOR, in each case plus
a margin, as shall be calculated by the Borrower on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (c) any other currency shall
be charged, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time, interest during each six-month period
commencing on January 1 and July 1 of each calendar year, (i) at a
fixed rate or (ii) at a rate comparable to LIBOR/FIBOR for floating
rate loans, in each case plus a margin, as shall be calculated by
the Borrower on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Interest payments on each Subsidiary Finance shall be
capitalized to the extent that interest payments on Sub-loans made
out of the proceeds thereof are capitalized as provided in paragraph
3 of Part A of Annex B to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

4.    Each Subsidiary Finance shall be repaid in accordance with an
amortization schedule pursuant to which each portion thereof
utilized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have a maturity cal-
culated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to such
Sub-loan.

5.    The right of each Participating Bank to the use of its
respective Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) suspended upon failure
by such Participating Bank to perform any of its obligations under
its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and (b) terminated if
such right shall have been suspended pursuant to sub-paragraph (a)
hereof for a continuous period of sixty days.

B.    Conditions

1.    A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a
bank, duly established and operating under the laws of the
Guarantor, which the Borrower shall have determined and the Bank

shall have agreed:

      (a)   is in compliance with all legal and regulatory
requirements applicable to its operations;

      (b)   is operating pursuant to acceptable lending policies and
procedures, including without limitation, procedures to
appropriately manage foreign exchange transactions;

      (c)   has a sound financial structure and satisfactory
financial policies and performance, and the organization,
management, staff and other resources required for the efficient
carrying out of its operations; and

      (d)   has established a credit committee in accordance with
the provisions of, and for the purposes set forth in, paragraph 2
(c) of this Part.

2.    Each Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which the Participating Bank which is a party thereto
shall undertake to:

      (a)   (i) carry out its activities under the Project and
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and
staff, and in accordance with the lending policies and procedures
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this Part, and provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose; and (ii) without limitation upon the
foregoing, maintain at all times a sound financial structure and
take all measures required to continue to achieve a sound financial
performance, as determined on the basis of guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank and the Borrower;

      (b)   (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Annex B to Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in
such manner as to protect its interest and the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, comply with its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreement and achieve the purposes of the
Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its
agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof,
without prior approval of the Borrower; and (iv) appraise Sub-
projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by
Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.

      (c)   maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower: a credit
committee to be responsible for the provision of assistance and
advice to its management on all matters relating to its lending
operations, including the evaluation of Sub-loan applications;

      (d)   (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to, the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested by the
Borrower or the Bank, in coordination with the Borrower, with regard
to the progress of its activities under Part A of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank,
through the Borrower, of any condition which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of its activities under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and

      (e)   (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank and the Borrower
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months

after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
financial statements and accounts for such year as so audited; (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail
as the Bank or the Borrower shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank or the Borrower such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof as the Bank or the Borrower shall from time totime reasonably 
request.

                     ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 5

                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

      Further to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Part B of
Annex A to Schedule 5 to this Agreement and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the principal terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Annex shall apply for the purposes of said
paragraph 2 (b) (i).

A.    Terms

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be: (a) de-
nominated in dollars or Deutsche Mark at the option of the
Beneficiary, or any other currency as the Borrower may accept; and
(b) equal to the sum total of: (i) the equivalent in the currency of
denomination (determined as of the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan for the Sub-project; and (ii) the amount
of interest payments on such Sub-loan capitalized as provided in
paragraph 3 of this Part.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be charged, on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at the
rate of interest applicable to loans made by the Participating Bank
making the Sub-loan pursuant to its lending policies and procedures
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Part B of Annex A to Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

3.    Interest payments on Sub-loans accrued and payable during the
execution of the Sub-projects financed thereunder may be capitalized
and paid out of the proceeds of such Sub-loan in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Each Sub-loan shall be made for a period not exceeding seven
years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding three years.

5.    Each Sub-loan shall be made on terms whereby the Participating
Bank making the Sub-loan shall obtain, by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect its interests and the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including:

      (a)   undertakings that the Beneficiary shall: (i) carry out
and operate the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and practices and appropriate health, safety and environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(ii) procure the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, and use such goods and services exclusively in
the carrying out of the Sub-project; (iii) enable the Bank, the
Borrower and the Participating Bank making the Sub-loan to inspect
such goods and the sites and works included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice including without limitation, such insurance to
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the

place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods; (v) at all times maintain a sound financial
structure and take all measures to achieve a sound financial
performance (including in the case of Sub-loans in amounts of
$300,000 equivalent or more, maintaining a debt/equity ratio of not
more than 60:40 and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5),
all as determined and calculated on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating Bank
making the Sub-loan; (vi) maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition; (vii) prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Participating Bank making the Sub-
loan, for forwarding to the Bank if so requested by the Bank, all
such information as the Bank, the Borrower or said Participating
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
and (viii) (A) have its financial statements (balance sheets, income
statements and cash flow statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (B)
furnish to the Borrower and the Participating Bank, for forwarding
to the Bank if so requested by the Bank, (1) as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonable
requested, and (2) such other information concerning the accounts
and records referred to in paragraph (a) (vi) hereof, as the Bank,
the Borrower or the Participating Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and

      (b)   the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure
by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract
providing for the Sub-loan.

B.    Conditions

1.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Beneficiary which: (a)
is a majority private-owned enterprise duly established and operat-
ing under the laws of the Guarantor; (b) has no more than 500
employees; and (c) shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Participating Bank making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, that (i) it is creditworthy and has a
sound financial structure and the organization, management, staff
and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations, including the Sub-project, and (ii) its projected
internal cash generation or equity increases and the provision of
other financing obtained by it shall be sufficient to enable it to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Sub-project.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only for a Sub-project which is:
(a) determined to be technically feasible and financially viable and
designed in accordance with appropriate health, safety and
environmental standards; and (b) in the case of a Sub-project whose
total estimated cost is the equivalent of at least $300,000, cal-
culated to have a financial rate of return of at least 15%; all as
shall be determined and calculated by the Participating Bank making
the Sub-loan on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    The total amount of each Sub-loan made to a Beneficiary for a
given Sub-project shall not exceed the lesser of the equivalent of:
(a) $2,000,000; or (b) 80% of the total estimated cost of such Sub-
project if the Sub-project is for the expansion or upgrading of an
existing enterprise, or 50% of the total estimated cost of such Sub-
project if the Sub-project is for the establishment of a new
enterprise.

4.    Expenditures for goods and services required for a Sub-project

shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only
if:

      (a)   such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank or the Borrower, as
the case may be, shall have received the information required under
sub-paragraph (b) or (c) hereof;

      (b)   if the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been (i)
made for a principal amount equivalent to $1,000,000 or more, or
(ii) one of the first three Sub-loans to be made by each
Participating Bank, and such Sub-loan shall have been approved by
the Bank on the basis of information furnished to the Bank
comprising an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of
the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization thereof, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request; and

      (c)   if the Sub-loan shall have been a Sub-loan other than a
Sub-loan referred to in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, and such Sub-loan
shall have been approved by the Borrower on the basis of information
furnished to the Borrower comprising a summary description of the
Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and the
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor; provided, however, that such information
shall contain, in addition, for each Sub-loan made for a principal
amount equivalent to $300,000 or more, the appraisal report of the
Sub-project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                         Special Account A

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the

                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                         Special Account B

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

