d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3323 UR

             (Debt and Debt Service Reduction Project)

                              between

                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 25, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3323 UR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1992, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 17,
1991, from the Borrower describing the Borrower’s medium term
macro-economic objectives and proposed policies and actions designed
to secure higher investment and export-led growth (the Economic
Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of
the Economic Program;

      (B)   on February 19, 1991, the Borrower implemented its debt
relief and new financing program described in the Borrower’s 1990
Financing Program dated November 5, 1990 (hereinafter the 1990
Financing Program), as a result of which: (i) Banco Central del
Uruguay (hereinafter Banco Central) purchased for cash the
equivalent of approximately US$628,000,000 of Eligible Debt (as
hereinafter defined) with a discount of 44%; (ii) Banco Central
issued Collateralized Fixed Rate Notes (as hereinafter defined) at

part in exchange for the equivalent of approximately US$535,000,000
of Eligible Debt; and (iii) Participating Lenders agreed to purchase
the equivalent of approximately US$89,000,000 in New Money Notes (as
defined in the 1990 Financing Program);

      (C)   the 1990 Financing Program has been designed to support
the Economic Program;

      (D) the Borrower has requested assistance from the Bank, the
Inter-American Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund,
in the financing of a portion of the cost of: (1) the purchase price
of Eligible Debt purchased by Banco Central under the 1990 Financing
Program; and (2) acquisition of collateral to secure interest
payments on the Collateralized Fixed Rate Notes; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower to support the
Economic Program upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                            ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Collateral" means collateral pledged by Banco Central
to secure interest payments on the Collateralized Fixed Rate Notes
(as hereinafter defined) in accordance with agreements entered into
pursuant to the 1990 Financing Program, and to be partially financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "Specific Collateral" means the
specific portions of the Collateral, as so defined, to be financed
(to the extent possible, fully) out of the proceeds of the Loan
under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   "Collateral Account" means each of the interest
collateral accounts in which the Collateral for the Collateralized
Fixed Rate Notes is maintained in accordance with the collateral
pledge agreement (hereinafter the "Collateral Pledge Agreement")
made by Banco Central in favor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, as collateral agent (hereinafter the "Collateral Agent"),
pursuant to the 1990 Financing Program;

      (c)   "Collateralized Fixed Rate Note" means each of the
Collateralized Fixed Rate Notes due 2021 issued by Banco Central
under the 1990 Financing Program;

      (d)   "Debt Purchase Offer" means the debt purchase offer
dated November 5, 1990 made by Banco Central under the 1990
Financing Program;

      (e)   "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in
the 1990 Financing Program;

      (f)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
beginning on January 1 of each year;

      (g)   "Participating Lenders" means commercial banks and other
financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have participated in
the 1990 Financing Program;

      (h)   "Purchase" means the aggregate of cash payments made by
Banco Central to Participating Lenders under the agreements entered
into pursuant to the Debt Purchase Offer and to be partially
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "Specific Purchases"
means the specific portions of the Purchase to be financed (to the
extent possible, fully) out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

      (i)   "Purchase and Collateral Financing" means the aggregate
of the amounts provided by the Bank, the Inter-American Development
Bank and the International Monetary Fund for the financing of the
acquisition of Collateral and for the payment of Purchases.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty five million dollars ($65,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing

                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
                  Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) Upon the occurrence of any of the following
events, the Bank, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the Loan then outstanding as specified
below together with all accrued interest and other charges thereon:

            (i)   The Bank shall have determined at any time that
                  any amount of the Loan has not been used for the
                  purpose of the Project in which case the amount
                  of the Loan subject to prepayment shall be such
                  amount as shall have been so determined.

           (ii)   Any portion of the Collateral shall have been
                  released to the Borrower and the remaining amount
                  of the said Collateral shall be less than the
                  amount of the Purchase and Collateral Financing
                  in which case the amount of the proceeds of the
                  Loan subject to prepayment shall be equal to the
                  difference between (1) the amount resulting after
                  deducting from the amount of the Purchase and
                  Collateral Financing the sums which have been
                  repaid by the Borrower out of the amounts drawn
                  by the Borrower from the International Monetary
                  Fund allocable to the Collateral and the amounts
                  lent to the Borrower by the Inter-American
                  Development Bank used to finance, directly or
                  indirectly, the acquisition of portions of the
                  Collateral and (2) the remaining amount of the
                  Collateral, less: (A) any amounts which have been
                  previously prepaid pursuant to this Section 2.08
                  (a) (ii); and (B) any amounts which would have
                  been subject to such prepayment but for the
                  provision of the following sentence. The
                  provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of

                  the Bank, that the amount of such Collateral so
                  released has been or will be used to support
                  further debt or debt service reduction activities
                  of the Borrower.

          (iii)   The pledge of the Collateral shall have ceased to
                  be a valid and perfected first priority security
                  interest in favor of the Collateral Agent on
                  behalf of the holders of Collateralized Fixed
                  Rate Notes, in which case the amount of the Loan
                  subject to prepayment shall be the amount of the
                  proceeds of the Loan then withdrawn from the Loan
                  Account in respect of Specific Collateral less
                  any amounts thereof which have been previously
                  paid pursuant to the provisions of this
                  Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of
any of the events listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within
five (5) working days of the occurrence thereof.

      (c)   The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium
payable under Schedule 3 to this Agreement on prepayment of any
portion of the Loan pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.

      (d)   Prepayment of all or any portion of the Loan in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a
date and in the currency specified by the Bank and the amount so
prepaid shall be deleted from the Central Disbursement Account on
such date.

      Section 2.09. The Borrower’s officers appointed by the
representative of the Borrower stipulated in Section 7.01 of this
Agreement are hereby designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions including, without limitation,
preparing withdrawal applications under the Loan and collecting the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support
of such applications.

                            ARTICLE III

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the payments made in respect of the Project and financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                  Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals

from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  or years in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Loan Account was made, all records (contract,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditures sub- mitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the Economic
Program and the 1990 Financing Program.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views in respect of the
Economic Program, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment a report on the Economic Program in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. Without any limitations or restrictions upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section
2.08 (b) of this Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) at all
times keep the Bank informed of all notices, certificates and
confirmations issued to or received by the Borrower or Banco Central
in respect of the Collateral or the Purchase; and (ii) cause Banco
Central to provide to the Bank copies of the monthly reports with
respect to the Collateral to be delivered by the Collateral Agent to
Banco Central pursuant to the provisions of the Collateral Pledge
Agreement within 15 days of the receipt thereof.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Economic Program, or any significant part thereof, will be
carried out; and

      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (ii) or (iii)
of Section 2.08 of this Agreement shall have occurred.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the financing package for the 1990 Financing
Program to be funded by sources external to the Borrower has been
completed; and

      (b)   that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is
consistent with the objectives of the Economic Program.

      Section 6.02. The date of August 25, 1992 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                         ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
            Colonia 1,089
            Montevideo, Uruguay

            Cable address:                Telex:

            MINECON                         6269 MINECON UY
            Montevideo, Uruguay

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

                        By /s/ Ignacio de Posadas

                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain

                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Specific              33,000,000  )        100% of foreign
     Collateral                        )        expenditures
                                       )
(2)  Specific              32,000,000  )
     Purchases
                              __________

         TOTAL                65,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for Specific Purchases or for the
acquisition of Specific Collateral.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to February 15, 1991; (b) in respect of Specific
Collateral unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a certi-
ficate, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, showing that
there are no defaults under the Collateralized Fixed Rate Notes
affecting the Specific Collateral in question; and (c) in respect of
any Specific Purchase, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
a certificate in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank showing
that the Specific Purchase in question, as provided for in the
corresponding agreement or agreements referred to in Part B of the
Project, remain in full force and effect. Without limitation or
restriction on the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General Con-
ditions, if the Bank shall so request in connection with one or more
withdrawals from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank in connection with any of the aforesaid
conditions.

                          SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s
Economic Program and the 1990 Financing Program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Interest Support

      Provision of Collateral for the purpose of securing the
payment of interest on the Collateralized Fixed Rate Notes.

Part B:     Debt Reduction

      Purchase of Eligible Debt by Banco Central pursuant to one or
more agreements entered into pursuant to the Debt Purchase Offer.

                             *   *   *

                             SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning January 15, 1997
      through   July 15, 2006             3,250,000

_________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate (ex-
                                    pressed as a percentage per
                                    annum) applicable to the Loan
                                    on the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years before                 1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
                Modifications of General Conditions
1.    The following provisions of the General Conditions are
deleted:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02.

      (b)   Section 5.02.

      (c)   Section 5.04.

      (d)   Section 5.08.

      (e)   The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel

any amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in
Section 6.01.

      (f)   Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.

      (g)   Section 6.04.

      (h)   The phrase "and not subject to any special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.07.

      (i)   Section 9.04.

      (j)   Section 9.05.

      (k)   Section 9.06.

      (1)   Section 9.08.

      (m)   Section 9.09.

2.    Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

                  "Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are
            to be Made. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall
            be made in the respective currencies in which the
            payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
            have been made or are to be made."

3.    The last sentence of Section 4.02 (a) shall be modified to
read:

                  "Each such amount shall be deleted from the
            Central Disbursement Account on the date it becomes due
            or such earlier date as may be accepted by the Bank for
            prepayment or as may be specified for prepayment
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

4.    The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be modified to
read:

                  "Each such amount shall be deleted from such sub-
            account on the date it becomes due or such earlier date
            as may be accepted for prepayment or as may be specified
            for prepayment pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

5.    Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:

                  "Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account.
            The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan
            Account amounts paid or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
            be paid for the purposes of the Project in accordance
            with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these
            General Conditions.

6.    Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:

                  "Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When
            the Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from
            the Loan Account, the Borrower shall deliver to the Bank
            a written application in such form, and containing such
            statements and agreements, as the Bank shall reasonably
            request."

7.    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

8.    Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:

                  "Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The
            Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
            adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
            Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
            derived from it), to identify the payments financed out
            of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use
            in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank’s representa- tives
            to examine the records and documents relevant to the
            performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the
            Loan Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
            intervals all such information as the Bank shall
            reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
            where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
            and the payments financed out of the proceeds of the
            Loan.

                  (b) Not later than six months after the Closing
            Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
            purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
            shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
            scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the carrying out of the Project, its cost
            and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
            performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
            respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
            accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."

