d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3477 TU

                  (Treasury Data Systems Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 12, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3477 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute

an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
      of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Treasury" means the Treasury of the Borrower;

      (b)   "GDERA" means General Directorate of Economic Research
and Assessment of Treasury; and

      (c)"Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of nine million two hundred thousand
dollars ($9,200,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency satisfactory to
the Bank a special deposit account in its Central Bank or a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after
                   July 1, 1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
            interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
            the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
            in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
GDERA, as Project administrator, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accord-
                   ance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report
                   of such audit contains a separate opinion by
                   said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall have employed, in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the
technical consultants required to assist in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik
            Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
            Mustesarligi
            Incnc Bulvari
            Emek - Ankara
            Republic of Turkey

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MALIYE HAZINE            821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                            821-42689 (ANK-TR)

                                           Rapifax:

                                             90-4-212-8737

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                         By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment                  1,900,000        100% of foreign
    (excluding                                  expenditures,
    mainframe                                   100% of local
    computer                                    expenditures
    and related                                 (ex-factory cost)
    software)                                   and 90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(2) Mainframe                  3,000,000        100% of foreign
    system software                             expenditures

(3) Wiring, installa-          1,100,000        100% of foreign
    tion of local                               expenditures and
    area networks and                           90% of local
    building modifi-                            expenditures
    cations

                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Consultants’ ser-                           100%
    vices and studies:

    (a)  Consultants’          1,100,000
         services (com-
         puter related)

    (b)  Studies and           1,000,000
         other consul-
         tants’ services

(5) Training (ex-              1,100,000       100%
    cluding training
    provided by multi-
    lateral institu-
    tions)
                               _________

         TOTAL                 9,200,000
                               =========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4) (a) and (5) on account
of payments made for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to provide Treasury with
the information, technology and analytic resources essential to
its future role in macroeconomic management by: (a) improving
Treasury’s monitoring and policy design functions through the
introduction of data analysis productivity tools; (b) providing
timely and efficient access for Treasury staff to a consistent,
centralized data source; (c) enabling Treasury to access databanks
of multilateral institutions and other agencies and vice versa;
(d) ensuring that organizational procedures support efficient data
processing and analysis; and (e) improving the availability and
reliability of economic data that Treasury provides to other
agencies of the Borrower, private sector institutions and
multilateral organizations.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Data Management System

(1)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower’s
capabilities in data management through the installation of a
system comprising:

      (a)   a mainframe computer facility where the economic
            databases are stored and managed;

      (b)   the design, creation and maintenance of economic
            databases to support analytic work by Treasury in
            economic management;

      (c)   personal workstations to serve as the primary data
            analysis facility; and

      (d)   local area networks to: (i) facilitate data sharing
            and communication, thereby enabling coordinated
            analysis of data by Treasury teams; and (ii) provide
            additional network services, including electronic mail
            and software sharing.

(2)  Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower’s
capabilities in: (i) operating the data management system, and
(ii) providing end-user support to the staff of Treasury,
including the provision of technical assistance and training
required therefor.

Part B:     Institutional Development

(1)   Training Programs

      (a)   Carrying out of a training program to strengthen the
Borrower’s capabilities in: (i) econometric modelling and
forecasting; (ii) trade analysis; (iii) liability management
techniques; (iv) accounting and auditing; and (v) specialized
areas, such as finance, statistics and related topics.

      (b)   Development of an institutional training program for
the professional staff of Treasury, including the provision of
technical assistance required therefor.

(2)   Studies and Advisory Services

      (a)   Carrying out of studies on: (i) the organizational
structures, systems and processes required for the effective use
of the data management system; and (ii) the institutional training
requirements of Treasury and the development of an institutional
training program for the professional staff of Treasury.

      (b)   Development of the following analytic frameworks and
quantitative models for:

            (i)    consolidating the financial accounts of the
                   public sector to support more effective design
                   of fiscal policies and monitoring of fiscal
                   developments;

           (ii)    analyzing state economic enterprise performance
                   to support the design of financial and reform
                   programs, including privatization;

          (iii)    analyzing the financial sector flow-of-funds to
                   monitor the impact of public sector deficit
                   financing on financial markets and key
                   macroeconomic variables;

           (iv)    preparing foundations of a macroeconomic model
                   to strengthen consistency of macroeconomic
                   programming; and

            (v)    analyzing the impact on the Borrower’s budget
                   of trade tax consolidation and reduction.

(3)   Economic Information Center

      Establishment in Treasury of a library and an economic
information center for the purposes of disseminating to and
sharing data and research findings with other public and private
sector agencies and information centers.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each April 1 and October 1

      beginning October 1, 1997
      through October 1, 2008              385,000

and on April 1, 2009                       345,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Computer-related equipment required under Part B (3) of the
Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

2.    Contracts for mainframe extension equipment, software and

other technical items and for wiring, installation of local area
networks and building modifications may be awarded with the prior
approval of the Bank after direct negotiations with suppliers in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ management, technical and training
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by November 30 of each calendar year, prepare and
furnish to the Bank for the Bank’s review and comments, a proposed
action plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the carrying out of the Project during the
following calendar year;

      (b)   thereafter, promptly carry out such action plan during
such following calendar year as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank; and

      (c)   consult with the Bank before introducing any material
changes in such action plan and introduce only such changes as
shall have been mutually agreed.

2.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992, employ, in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this

Agreement, the training and management consultants to assist in
the carrying out of Part B of the Project.

3.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and
comments a detailed description of the proposed domestic training
under Part (B) (1) of the Project;

      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and
comments proposals for detailed descriptions of foreign training
and criteria for staff selection, satisfactory to the Bank, for
said training under Part (B) (1) of the Project; and

      (c)   by January 30, 1993, prepare, on the basis of the
recommendations of the study referred to under Part B (2) (a) (ii)
of the Project, and furnish to the Bank for review and comments an
action plan for the establishment of an institutional training
program under Part B (1) (b) of the Project, and thereafter carry
out said action plan as shall have been mutually agreed.

4.   The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by November 30, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank
a staffing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of
carrying out Part A (1) (b) of the Project; and

      (b)   by July 31, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
review and comments the design of the economic databases referred
to in said Part A (1) (b) of the Project.

5.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by December 31, 1992, establish in Treasury study
groups comprising staff, satisfactory to the Bank, of GDERA, the
Borrower’s General Directorate of External Economic Relations,
General Directorate of Public Finance, General Directorate of
Banking and Foreign Exchange and General Directorate of Imports,
and such other appropriate directorates and agencies of the
Borrower and domestic and foreign consultants for the purpose of
carrying out the studies and analyses under Part B (2) of the
Project; and

      (b)   carry out said studies and analyses under said Part B
(2) of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and
timetables satisfactory to the Bank.

6.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by September 30, 1992, carry out a survey, on the
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the
requirements of the private sector and public agencies for
information and data maintained by Treasury;

      (b)   by December 31, 1992, prepare, on the basis of the
survey referred to in paragraph (a) above, and furnish to the Bank
for review and comments the draft operating policies and
procedures for the economic information center referred to in Part
B (3) of the Project; and

      (c)   thereafter take appropriate measures to adopt said
operating policies and procedures as shall have been mutually
agreed.

7.    The Borrower shall, through GDERA as Project administrator,
organize meetings on a quarterly basis with the Borrower’s General
Directorate of External Economic Relations, General Directorate of
Banking and Foreign Exchange, General Directorate of Public
Finance and General Directorate of Imports and such other
appropriate directorates and agencies of the Borrower to
coordinate: (a) the input of each Directorate to activities under
the Project and to the annual action plan referred to in paragraph

1 of this Schedule; (b) the training requirements of each
Directorate; and (c) the review of overall progress under the
Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

