d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3431 IND

                (Third Nonformal Education Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated February 5, 1992

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3431 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an

integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s Fiscal Year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

      (b)   "Intensive Program Area" means the subdistricts selected
in accordance with paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Kejar Usaha" means income-generating learning groups;

      (d)   "Penilik Pendidikan Masyarakat" and the acronym "Penilik
Dikmas" mean an out-of-school education subdistrict field
supervisor; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-nine million five hundred thousand dollars
($69,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding

during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
the Directorate General for Out-of-School Education, Youth and
Sports within the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Culture, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, educational and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and

other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal

                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jln. Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY               45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakara                    44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji

                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Civil works         2,000,000        50%

(2)  Equipment                 2,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3)  Furniture                  200,000         50%

(4)  Vehicles                 1,300,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5)  Instructional           9,700,000          69%
     materials, books
     and manuals

(6)  Consultants’ ser-       9,600,000          100%
     vices, including
     resource persons,
     and fellowships

(7)  Local training         16,400,000          69%

(8)  Tutor incentives        2,200,000          69%
     under Parts A and
     B of the Project

(9)  Learning funds and     15,500,000          100%
     scholarships under
     Part B of the Project

(10) Incremental                                85% in FY 1993;
     recurrent costs:                           70% in FY 1994;
                                                55% IN FY 1995;
     (a) under Part B of      4,600,000         40% in FY 1996;
         the Project                            and 25% in
                                                FY 1997

     (b) under Part C of      4,000,000
         the Project

(11) Unallocated              1,700,000
                             __________

      TOTAL                  69,500,000
                             ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "tutor incentives" means one time payments to
tutors providing services under Parts A and B of the Project;

      (d)   the term "learning funds" means grants to be made
available to learners under Parts B (1), B (2) and B (5) of the
Project for financing: (i) consumable materials, including practice
materials and writing supplies; (ii) skills training costs; and
(iii) practice materials;

      (e)   the term "scholarships" means grants to be made avail-
able to: (i) learners to cover their tuition costs in a private
Indonesian training institution, including examination fees and
travel costs; and (b) to private Indonesian enterprises to cover the
training costs for apprenticeships; and

      (f)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means:

            (i)    honoraria for Project staff and contract field
                   workers;

           (ii)    selection and recruitment costs for learners,
                   tutors and participating organizations;

          (iii)    travel and per diem allowances for field
                   supervision;

           (iv)    operation and maintenance expenses for Project-
                   financed facilities and equipment; and

            (v)    consumable materials.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b) payments
made for expenditures under Categories (9) and (10) (a) of the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for each subdistrict under the
Project, until the Bank has been furnished with evidence, satis-
factory to the Bank, that such subdistrict has been allocated a
Penilik Dikmas, and the required additional field workers have been
recruited, trained and deployed to such subdistrict.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its
efforts to enhance the basic education and income-generating skills
of the poor, and increase their productivity and employment pros-
pects.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such

modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Basic Program

      Provision of basic literacy training to about nine hundred
thousand persons, including provision of learning materials and
learning funds to learners, and training and incentives to tutors.

Part B:     Intensive Program

1.    Development and support of an intensive literacy training
program to serve about 600,000 learners, including: (i) provision of
learning materials and learning funds to learners; (ii) provision of
supplementary materials and audiovisual aids; (iii) provision of
teaching kits, travel allowances and incentives to tutors; and
(iv) establishment of Community Reading Centers (Taman Bacaan
Masyarakat).

2.    Development, testing and revision of curricula, teaching and
learning materials, and a delivery system for an out-of-school
education alternative to lower secondary education, and provision of
such program to about 17,000 learners.

3.    Upgrading of the capacity of private vocational courses
(Diklusemas) to provide training to unskilled young people and to
increase the access of low-income persons to such training,
including: (i) development of model curricula, teaching materials,
manuals and examinations; and (ii) provision of scholarships to
about 27,000 sponsored trainees.

4.    Expansion and improvement of the apprenticeship (Magang)
program, including preparation of learning plans for and provision
of scholarships to about 60,000 apprentices.
5.    Development and carrying out of training programs in small
business management skills and provision of technical assistance to
about 60,000 income-generating groups (Kejar Usaha), including
preparation of group learning plans.

6.    Provision of technical assistance to the Directorate of
Community Education for carrying out the Intensive Program.

Part C:     National Support Services

      Strengthening of the Directorate of Community Education’s
capacity to design, manage, monitor and evaluate the activities
under the Project, including: (i) improvement of the quality of pre-
service and in-service staff training for out-of-school education
staff, and training of trainers for staff of private vocational
courses; (ii) construction, renovation, and equipment of out-of-
school education support facilities, including the Directorate of
Community Education’s headquarters, regional learning and resource
centers, and district learning and resource centers; (iii) improve-
ment of project management and implementation systems for the
Intensive Program areas; (iv) strengthening the capacity for project
monitoring and evaluation; and (v) provision of technical
assistance.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      September 15, 1997                   1,265,000
      March 15, 1998                       1,315,000
      September 15, 1998                   1,365,000

      March 15, 1999                       1,420,000
      September 15, 1999                   1,475,000
      March 15, 2000                       1,530,000
      September 15, 2000                   1,590,000
      March 15, 2001                       1,655,000
      September 15, 2001                   1,715,000
      March 15, 2002                       1,785,000
      September 15, 2002                   1,850,000
      March 15, 2003                       1,925,000
      September 15, 2003                   2,000,000
      March 15, 2004                       2,075,000
      September 15, 2004                   2,155,000
      March 15, 2005                       2,240,000
      September 15, 2005                   2,325,000
      March 15, 2006                       2,415,000
      September 15, 2006                   2,510,000
      March 15, 2007                       2,605,000
      September 15, 2007                   2,705,000
      March 15, 2008                       2,810,000
      September 15, 2008                   2,920,000
      March 15, 2009                       3,030,000
      September 15, 2009                   3,150,000
      March 15, 2010                       3,270,000
      September 15, 2010                   3,395,000
      March 15, 2011                       3,530,000
      September 15, 2011                   3,655,000
      March 15, 2012                       3,810,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Equipment and furniture shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Printing services, including distribution, shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

5.    Instructional materials and books including their distri-
bution, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

6.    Vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, such procedures to include the
following: (i) advising bidders through the General Procurement
Notice, in the specific advertisements published inviting bids for
each package, and in the bidding documents, that import licenses
shall be made available for foreign vehicles in a timely manner to
comply with the delivery requirements set forth in the bidding
documents; and (ii) issuing of import licenses for foreign vehicles
to the successful bidder in a timely manner to comply with the
delivery requirements set forth in the bidding documents.

Part B:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for vehicles, and (ii)
each contract for civil works, equipment, furniture and printing
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to  paragraph 2 (d) of said
Appendix 1 shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3 of said Appendix 1

shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B and C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall carry out the Project pursuant to criteria
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including, selection of:
(a) subdistricts and beneficiaries in the Intensive Program Area;
(b) private training institutions; (c) apprenticeship enterprises;
(d) technical assistance resource persons; and (e) civil works
sites.

2.    The Borrower shall provide scholarships and develop learning
plans for beneficiaries under Parts B.1, B.3, B.4 and B.5 pursuant
to model contracts and formats satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Prior to implementing the program for out-of-school lower
secondary education under Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall develop a revised program, satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    The Borrower shall carry out the out-of-school education staff
in-service training program in accordance with a Master Training
Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include an intensive
staff training program. For such purposes, on October 31 of each
year, commencing on October 31, 1992, and, thereafter, until the
completion of the Project, the Borrower and the Bank shall review
and, if required, revise such Master Training Plan taking into
account the experience gained through its implementation.

5.    The Borrower shall take all such measures as shall be
necessary to obtain, in a timely manner but not later than the date
on which each out-of-school education support facility under Part C
of the Project has been completed, the respective governmental
authorizations to establish the District Learning and Resource
Centers therefor.

6.    The Borrower shall allocate equipment and vehicles financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to a plan satisfactory to
the Bank.

7.    The Borrower shall, by April 1, 1993, adopt and thereafter
implement a revised system, satisfactory to the Bank, for super-
vision, reporting, monitoring and evaluation of the Borrower’s out-
of-school education programs.

8.    The Borrower shall carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, an Out-of-School Education Staffing Action Plan acceptable to
the Bank, and shall, not later than June 1, 1992, appoint and deploy
to the Project Management Unit of the Directorate of Community
Education, at least twelve additional suitably qualified and
experienced staff.

9.    The Borrower shall, by October 31 of each year, commencing on
October 31, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments, a proposed Project implementation plan for the
following Borrower’s Fiscal Year, including budgetary requirements,
and thereafter, taking into account the Bank’s comments, if any,
carry out such Project implementation plans.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (10) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other

evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

