d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3534 GU

                          Loan Agreement

                 (Social Investment Fund Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                     Dated September 29, 1993
ˇ                                              LOAN NUMBER 3534 GU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, which the Borrower intends to carry out in the terms
provided for hereunder and within the framework of its Social Sector
Strategy as described in the Letter of Social Sector Development
Policy signed by the Borrower's Minister of Finance on October 29,
1992, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and

      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Banco
Centroamericano de Integracion Economica (BCIE) and Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (BCIE and KfW, respectively) two loans (the BCIE
Loan and the KfW Loan, respectively) in amounts equivalent to
$10,000,000 and DM (as hereinafter defined) 30,000,000,
respectively, to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements (the BCIE Agreement and the KfW
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and each of BCIE
and KfW, respectively; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (c)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:

            "or (f) if by the date specified in paragraph 2 (c) of
      Part B of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
      respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or
      (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
      applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the
      Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
      applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Approved Subproject" means a Subproject, as so defined,
that has been approved by SIF, as the term is defined below, in
accordance with the Operational Manual, as the term is defined
below, and in respect of which SIF has entered into the
corresponding Subproject Agreement, as the term is defined below;

      (b)   "Beneficiary" means the individual, informal groups of
individuals or groups of individuals associated under legal entities
permitted under the legal provisions mentioned in Section 6.01 (a)
of this Loan Agreement or other provisions of the Borrower’s laws,
for the benefit of which an Approved Subproject may be carried out
and financed by SIF;

      (c)   "Cooperation Agreement" means each of the contractual
arrangements to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 3.01 (c) and 6.01 (f) of this Loan Agreement;

      (d)  "DM" means the currency unit of the Federal Republic of
Germany in which the KfW shall be denominated under the KfW
Agreement;

      (e)   "Eligible Approved Subproject" means an Approved
Subproject, as so defined, that: (i) either has been approved by the

Bank or is a free-limit Approved Subproject for which the Bank has
authorized disbursements, both pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement; (ii) has
been provided for under the corresponding Subproject Agreement;
(iii) as the context will require, is intended to be, is being or
has been financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (iv) is
included in the Operational Manual, as the term is defined below, in
the areas of basic health care, feeding, nutrition, pre-school,
elemental or informal education, construction, rehabilitation or
upgrading of health, feeding and nutrition, pre-school or basic
education facilities, community training in the use and maintenance
of health, feeding and nutrition and sanitation facilities,
development of training materials, setting up of temporary premises
to be used in training courses for any of the above, economic infra-
structure, (which comprises local roads, bridges, drainage
facilities for rural roads, maintenance of primary roads including
training therefor, protection of the environment, rehabilitation,
extension and construction of wells or irrigation systems,
agricultural collection or storage facilities, rehabilitation or
construction of common slaughterhouses or trade centers,
construction, rehabilitation or expansion of agro-industrial
processing centers, and protection or conservation of historic and
cultural monuments or sites), and such other areas or specific
activities as the Bank and SIF may agree upon in writing from time
to time;

      (f)   "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures for the
procurement of goods, civil works or services that, according to the
Operational Manual, may be financed by SIF in respect of the
execution of any given Eligible Approved Subproject, and the term
specifically excludes expenditures the financing of which is not
permitted by the Operational Manual or the financing of which under
the Loan is not permitted under the provisions of this Loan
Agreement or additional notices given by the Bank to SIF or the
Borrower from time to time and to that effect;

      (g)   "Executing Entity" means either the Beneficiary, or an
NGO or a Municipality (as the terms are defined below), or an
administrative subdivision of the Borrower whose services are
required for the execution of the Approved Subproject in question,
to the extent the Beneficiary, NGO, Municipality or administrative
subdivision in question is eligible under the Operational Manual to
be charged with the overall responsibility for the carrying out of
the corresponding Approved Subproject and is ready to undertake or
has undertaken such responsibility under the corresponding
Subproject Agreement, as the term is defined below;

      (h)   "Ministries" means the Borrower’s Ministries of
Education, Health, and Urban and Rural Development, and any other of
the Borrower’s Ministries (other than the Ministry of Public
Finance) whose participation may become necessary during Project
execution.

      (i)   "Municipality" means a political subdivision of the
Borrower or a legal entity owned and controlled by such political
subdivision;

      (j)   "NGO" means a non-profit and privately owned and
controlled legal entity, legally capable to carry on operations in
Guatemala, and which is, or may become, eligible under the
Operational Manual to be a Sponsoring Entity (as the term is defined
below) or an Executing Entity, as the case may be;

      (k)   "Operation Manual" means the Operational Manual adopted
by SIF pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 6.01
of this Loan Agreement, as such Manual may be changed from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and SIF;

      (l)   "SIF" means the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund, a
legal entity fully owned by the Borrower, denominated Fondo de
Inversion Social, established by the Decree or Decrees enacted by
the Borrower’s Congress pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)

of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement and governed by such Decree
or Decrees and by the regulations thereto issued by the Borrower’s
Executive Branch pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement, as such Decrees or regulations
may be modified from time to time with the acquiescence of the Bank
and SIF;

      (m)   "Sponsoring Entity" means an NGO, or a private
individual or entity, a Municipality or an administrative
subdivision of the Borrower, that has prepared or helped a
Beneficiary to prepare, a Subproject or has requested its approval
for purposes of SIF’s financial assistance, and which is ready to
enter, or has entered, into the corresponding Subproject Agreement
with SIF to sponsor the carrying out of the Approved Subproject in
question by the corresponding Beneficiary;

      (n)   "Subproject" means each of the types of subprojects
listed in the subproject menu included in the Operational Manual, as
such Manual may be changed by SIF from time to time by agreement
with the Bank;

      (o)   "Subproject Agreement" means the contractual
arrangements to be entered into between SIF and the Executing Entity
and, if different than the latter, the Sponsoring Entity, and which
will stipulate, in a manner which is consistent with the provisions
of the Operational Manual, the terms and conditions, particularly
those provided for in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement,
under which a given Approved Subproject shall be carried out and be
financed by SIF, provided, however, that when the Executing Entity
is not the Beneficiary and the Beneficiary is expected to finance
any part of the cost of the Approved Subproject in question, the
Beneficiary shall also be a party to the Subproject Agreement; and

      (p)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and SIF to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (d) and (c) of Sections 3.01 and 6.01, respectively, of
this Loan Agreement, as it may be changed from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of this Loan Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
                  months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (i
ii) of
                  this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Executive President of SIF is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through

SIF, under the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental, public health, sanitation,
education, nutrition and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to any of the
provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall take all such
action on its part as shall be required to maintain SIF with an
organizational structure, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank and staffed, at all times, with adequate
personnel with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank,
including those of any candidate to occupy the position of Executive
President of SIF, in respect of whom, consultation with the Bank
shall be required before any appointment to such position is made.

      (c)   Without limitation or restriction to any of the
provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall, through the
Minister of Public Finance and each of the Ministries, enter with
SIF into contractual arrangements (Cooperation Agreement) which
shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) all Approved Subprojects are
consistent with the respective investment plans of such Ministries;
(ii) said Ministries’ technical norms and standards for service
delivery are consistent with those to be provided under or as a
result of the carrying out of Approved Subprojects; (iii)
incremental recurrent costs caused by said Subprojects would be
incorporated into the budgets of the respective Ministries when said
costs are not to be financed by the Beneficiaries; and (iv)
mechanisms satisfactory to the Bank are kept at all times for
purposes of the above.

      (d)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to SIF as a grant under a subsidiary agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SIF, under terms and
conditions which shall include the stipulations set forth in Part A
of Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement and other stipulations agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank (the Subsidiary Agreement).

      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Cooperation Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement, any Cooperation Agreement or any
provisions thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through SIF, and the Bank
shall, not later than December 31 of each year during the execution
of the Project, starting on December 31, 1994, undertake a joint
review of the progress made in the execution of the Project and in
the achievement of the objectives thereof, such review to cover,
inter alia, the agenda set forth in Schedule 6 to this Loan
Agreement.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank’s
remedies under this Agreement, if any of the reviews referred to in
paragraph (a) above shows that the objectives of the Project are not
being achieved, or that, in the opinion of the Bank, the Project is
not being satisfactorily carried out or no satisfactory progress has
been made in its execution, the Borrower shall promptly take, or
cause through SIF to be taken, all such remedial action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary to remedy the
situation, as notified to SIF by the Bank. In assessing the progress
in the execution of the Project, the Bank shall apply, inter alia,
the monitoring indicators and targets set forth or referred to in
Schedule 7 to this Loan Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through SIF, ensure that the
aggregate amount of funds committed by SIF under Subproject
Agreements in areas other than those referred to in Section 1.02 (d)
of this Loan Agreement shall, at all times and except otherwise
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, be 10% or less of the
aggregate funds committed by SIF under Subproject Agreements at the
moment in question.

      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with United Nations
Development Programme or other institution or institutions
acceptable to the Bank, or both, which shall assist the Borrower and
SIF in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise, and shall cause SIF to
exercise, their respective rights under the contractual arrangements
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the additional
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (e) of Section
6.01 of this Loan Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the
interest of the Borrower, SIF and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not, and shall cause FIS not to, assign, modify,
amend, abrogate or waive such arrangements or any of the provisions
thereof.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SIF to maintain
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
SIF and the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
each Approved Subproject.

      (b)   The Borrower shall cause SIF to:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause SIF to:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)

                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SIF, under the
Subsidiary Agreement: (i) to cause an adequate sample of Approved
Subprojects, selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank, to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, every quarter during the execution of the Project, each such
audit to be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and to include a financial review of expenditures incurred
under the selected Approved Subprojects and a field inspection of
the physical activities under the Subprojects in question; and (ii)
to furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, as soon as available, but
in any case not later than two months after the end of each such
quarter, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall have reasonably requested.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, provided,
however, that in respect of any event referred to in paragraph (e)
below, the Bank may, if justifiable in its opinion, restrict the
suspension of disbursements of Loan proceeds in respect of the
portion or portion thereof, or Approved Subproject or Subprojects,
affected by the event in question:

      (a)   SIF such have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement or under any of the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (f)(iv) of this
Section or in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement.

      (b)   Any Cooperation Agreement shall have been modified or
terminated without the acquiescence of the Bank, or any of the
parties thereto shall have failed to comply with their respective
obligations thereunder.

      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project,
                        including the BCIE Loan or the KfW Loan or
                        the right of SIF to have access to such
                        proceeds shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                        part, pursuant to the terms of the BCIE
                        Agreement or the KfW Agreement or any other
                        agreement providing a grant or loan for the
                        Project, as the case may be; or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof; and

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not

                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
                  maturing is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

      (d)   That any of the legal provisions mentioned in paragraph
(a) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement have been abrogated, or
changed so as to materially effect in the opinion of the Borrower or
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project by the Borrower acting
through SIF.

      (e)   That any of the parties to a Subproject Agreement has
failed to comply with its respective obligations thereunder.

      (f)   That, by a date twelve and six months, respectively from
the Effective Date: (i) the BCIE and the KfW Agreements shall have
not been executed and delivered between the parties thereto; or (ii)
their respective conditions of effectiveness shall have not been
met; or (iii) a legal opinion or opinions on behalf of the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, stating that the BCIE Agreement and
the KfW Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and that each of
said Agreements is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with their respective terms, shall have not been furnished to the
Bank; or (iv) any of the contractual arrangements among the
Borrower, SIF and, as the case may be, BCIE or KfW, required to make
the proceeds of the BCIE Loan and the KfW Loan, respectively,
available to SIF, shall have not been entered into, or having been
entered into shall have not become effective; or (v) a legal opinion
or opinions, on behalf of the Borrower and SIF and satisfactory to
the Bank, stating that the contractual arrangements referred to in
(iv) above have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SIF, and are legally
binding thereupon in accordance with their respective terms, shall
have not been furnished to the Bank.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) or (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.

                           ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that one or more Decrees satisfactory to the Bank,
establishing SIF have been enacted by the Borrower’s Congress, that
such Decree or Decrees have been published in the Borrower’s
Official Gazette, and that the Borrower’s Executive Branch have
issued regulations to such Decree or Decrees in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (b)   that SIF has been adequately staffed and furnished with
other resources required to make it operational, that the Executive
President of SIF, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank, has been appointed and that SIF has
issued, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, an Operational Manual consistent with the legal provisions
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and with the
Cooperation Agreements;

      (c)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed and
delivered between the parties thereto and that all conditions to the
effectiveness thereof, other than the effectiveness of this Loan
Agreement, have been met;

      (d)   (i) that the contractual arrangements stipulated in
Section 3.05 (a) of this Loan Agreement have been executed and
delivered between the Borrower and other parties thereto and that
all conditions for their respective effectiveness other than the
effectiveness of this Loan Agreement, have been met; and (ii) that
the Borrower has made progress satisfactory to the Bank towards
entering with BCIE into the BCIE Agreement;

      (e)   that all additional contractual arrangements among the
Borrower, the institution or institutions involved pursuant to
Section 3.05 of this Loan Agreement and SIF, required to make
available to SIF the services to be provided to the Borrower under
the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) above,
have been entered into and have become effective;

      (f)   that all the Cooperation Agreements with the Ministries
specifically listed as such in Section 1.02 (g) of this Loan
Agreement have been executed and delivered and have become
effective; and

      (g)   that SIF has put into effect, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, an initial management information system
that will be later evaluated and completed under Part B.2 (a) of the
Project.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and SIF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
SIF in accordance with its terms;

      (b)   that the contractual arrangements stipulated in Section
3.05 of this Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, and that
such Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms;

      (c)   that the additional contractual arrangements mentioned
in paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and SIF and are legally binding upon the Borrower
and SIF in accordance with their terms; and

      (d)   that SIF has been established in accordance with the
Borrower’s laws, that its Executive President has been duly
appointed, and the Operational Manual has been duly issued, all in
accordance with the legal provisions mentioned in paragraph (a) of
Section 6.01 of this Loan Agreement, and that SIF is legally
empowered, by virtue of said legal provisions, the Borrower’s laws
and the Operational Manual, to undertake the activities which will
enable the Borrower to carry out the Project.

      Section 6.03. The date of January 27, 1994 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                          ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Sections 2.08 and 7.03 of
this Loan Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Public Finance
            8a Avenida and 21a Calle
            Zona 1
            Guatemala, Guatemala

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIP                    9207 MINFIP GU
                  Guatemala, Guatemala

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

            For SIF:

            Fondo de Inversion Social
            13 Calle 7-51
            Zona 9
            Guatemala, Guatemala

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  Fondo de Inversion              Fondo de
                  Social                          Inversion
                  MINIP                           Social
                  Guatemala, Guatemala            9207 MINFIP GU

      Section 7.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Loan Agreement on behalf of SIF, may be taken or executed by SIF’s
Executive President, and any action so taken or document so executed
shall be deemed taken on behalf of the Borrower. For that purposes,
SIF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                  By /s/ Richard Aitkenhead
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Eligible                  15,800,000        90% of disburse-
    Expenditures                                ments made by SIF
    under                                       in respect thereto
    Eligible
    Approved
    Subprojects

(2) Goods for                    200,000        100% of foreign
    Parts B and C                               expenditures and
    of the Project                              80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3) Short-term                 2,000,000        100%
    specialized ser-,
    vices for SIF, train-
    ing under Parts B.(1)
    and C of the Project,
    auditing services,
    and monitoring
    and evaluation
    services under
    Part B (2) of
    the Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) SIF operations            1,000,000         100%, until the
    (other than Short-                          aggregate amounts
    term services                               withdrawn under
    under Category                              this Category (the
    (3) of this                                 Amounts) reach the
    table)                                      equivalent of
                                                $500,000, 50%
                                                thereafter until

                                                the Amounts
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of
                                                $750,000 and
                                                25% thereafter

(5) Unallocated                1,000,000
                              ----------

         TOTAL                20,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
for expenditures to be financed out of Categories (1) or (2) of the
table in paragraph 1 above unless SIF shall have adopted standard
bidding documents in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

                          SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support the SIF as the
agency of the Borrower that: (a) will target scarce existing
resources of the Borrower more effectively to improve the health,
nutrition, basic education, and thus the income-earning potential of
the poor; (b) will create a means of responding rapidly and
efficiently to socio-economic needs as identified by poor local
communities, focusing in indigenous communities; and (c) will help
improve the coverage and quality of basic health, nutrition and
education services while the relevant Borrower’s Ministries are
being strengthened so as to better serve the rural population.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Approved Subprojects

      The identification, selection and appraisal by SIF of
Subprojects which may become Approved Subprojects, the making by the
Borrower of grants to finance such Approved Subprojects, the
procurement by SIF, directly or indirectly, of the goods, civil
works and services required by said Approved Subprojects and the
supervision of the execution of said Approved Subprojects, including
the monitoring of the progress made during, and the evaluation of
results obtained upon completion of, such execution, all in
accordance with the Operational Manual.

Part B:     SIF Administration

(1)   Strengthening of SIF’s capabilities by means of the provision
of technical assistance, particularly in the areas of fund raising,
social investment fund management, design, selection, appraisal and
result evaluation of Subprojects or Approved Subprojects, as the
case may be, appropriate technology applicable to Approved
Subprojects, and institutional strengthening and logistical support,
by means of provision of technical assistance to SIF and acquisition
and utilization by SIF of equipment.

(2)   Provision of additional assistance to SIF in the following
areas: (a) evaluation and completion of the implementation of a SIF
management information system; (b) implementation of a geographic
information system for SIF; (c) evaluation of best practices in
respect of: (i) water and sanitation; (ii) nutrition, (iii)
education and (iv) productive Subprojects; (d) evaluation of SIF’s
effectiveness in reaching target groups; (e) design and
implementation of a mechanism to evaluate welfare impact of Approved
Subprojects; and (f) data collection for the evaluation of Approved
Subprojects impact.

Part C:     Strengthening of Sponsoring and Executing Entities

      Strengthening of the operational capabilities of Sponsoringand Executing 
Entities, particularly through the enhancement of
their institutional capacity, including Subproject preparation, by
means of provision of technical assistance thereto and of
acquisition by SIF and transferring to and utilization by, said
Entities of equipment to improve accounting and management
practices.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 1 and November 1

      May 1, 1998                               370,000.00
      November 1, 1998                          385,000.00
      May 1, 1999                               395,000.00
      November 1, 1999                          410,000.00
      May 1, 2000                               430,000.00
      November 1, 2000                          445,000.00
      May 1, 2001                               460,000.00
      November 1, 2001                          480,000.00
      May 1, 2002                               495,000.00
      November 1, 2002                          515,000.00
      May 1, 2003                               535,000.00
      November 1, 2003                          555,000.00
      May 1, 2004                               575,000.00
      November 1, 2004                          600,000.00
      May 1, 2005                               620,000.00
      November 1, 2005                          645,000.00
      May 1, 2006                               670,000.00
      November 1, 2006                          695,000.00
      May 1, 2007                               720,000.00
      November 1, 2007                          750,000.00
      May 1, 2008                               775,000.00
      November 1, 2008                          805,000.00
      May 1, 2009                               840,000.00
      November 1, 2009                          870,000.00
      May 1, 2010                               900,000.00
      November 1, 2010                          935,000.00
      May 1, 2011                               970,000.00
      November 1, 2011                        1,010,000.00
      May 1, 2012                             1,050,000.00
      November 1, 2012                        1,095,000.00

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                   0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                  0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before                  1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent possible, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped so as to form bidding packages of $500,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Guatemala may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Local competitive bidding

      Contracts for civil works and goods, shall be grouped so as to
form bidding packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $55,000 or
more and $30,000 or more, respectively. Contracts so grouped or
individual contracts of that estimated cost, may be awarded under
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank which
shall include the bidding documents adopted by SIF pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement.

2.    Local or International Shopping

      Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 below, contracts for
civil works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$55,000 and $30,000, respectively, shall be awarded, after
soliciting not less than two quotations from reputable contractors
or suppliers, as the case may be, to one of such contractors or
suppliers, provided, however, that the aggregate of contracts so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000 for civil
works or $100,000 for goods.

3.    Direct Contracting

      Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$30,000 or less, may be awarded directly in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of standard
regionalized unit prices agreed from time to time between the Bank
and SIF and up to an aggregate limit of $5,900,000 equivalent.
Starting on April 1, 1994, and every six months thereafter, the
Borrower shall cause SIF to review the said prices then in effect,
and to revise said prices if, in the opinion of the Bank, the review
shows that the revision is justified.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works or goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and to each
contract for civil works and for goods awarded under Part A.1 and
each of the paragraphs of Part C above, irrespective of the amount
thereof, and to one or more subsequent contracts, if the Bank shall
so request by notice to SIF, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Part E:     Additional Procurement Provisions

1.    Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines or of
the Guidelines referred to in Section II of this Schedule in respect
of procurement of goods, works, and services and pursuant to the
provisions in respect of international agreements of the Guatemalan
Law concerning public sector procurement currently in effect:

      (a)   in respect of bidding procedures under Part A of this
Schedule, no registration procedures shall be required, or
understood to be required, as preconditions to bidding, except where
a prequalification procedures for intended bidders has been agreed
with the Bank and only to the extent that the criteria to enable
registration are not stricter than those for prequalification. In
respect of competitive bidding governed by the provisions of Part
C.1 of this Schedule, pre-registration may be used to the extent
that it shall not prevent foreign bidders to participate in any
bidding process and that is shall be achieved through ad-hoc
procedures agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the
Bank.

      (b)   No prior registration shall be required for consultants
services, and foreign consultants shall be allowed to participate
freely in the selection process even when local consultants shall be
available for the concerned services; and any public notice required

by legal provisions in effect in Guatemala and related to the
acquisition of services to be provided by consultants or experts,
shall be deemed applicable only to the extent that the public notice
in question is made as a way of soliciting expressions of interest
but not as an invitation to participate in the process.

      (c)   The bidding documents shall make clear that bids shall
be submitted during a period the length of which shall require prior
acceptance by the Bank, and it shall not be required that bids be
submitted personally to any individual or group of individuals; the
end of the period in question shall coincide, unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank, with the moment stipulated for bid opening in
the bidding documents. No bidder shall be disqualified because the
price of the corresponding bid falls above or below a predetermined
given value, or out of a post-bid-presentation-determined price
band.

      (d)   Bid and performance securities shall, at the bidder’s
option, be denominated in the currency of the bid or any other
currency commonly used in international transactions, and shall be
issued by any bank or insurance company located in Guatemala or
abroad, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.

2.    Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower shall invite bids in regard of the procurement of goods,
civil works and services for the Project exclusively on the basis of
standard documents agreed with the Bank from time to time and shall
inform the Bank on any proposed departure from said documents before
any such tender is made public.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts
B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SIF to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                        SCHEDULE 5

Part A:     Terms and Conditions for Subsidiary Agreement

1.    The proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to SIF as a
grant, pari passu with the withdrawals therefor from the Loan
Account, and with the exclusive purpose of being utilized in payment
of, or as reimbursements for, payments made for, Eligible
Expenditures, Salaries and other items listed in Categories 1
through 4 of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement.

2.    SIF shall expressly accept to act as attorney-in-fact of the
Borrower in respect of the carrying out of the Project and of all
obligations of the Borrower thereunder which are related to SIF
operations and, to that effect, the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions shall be expressly made an integral part of the
provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement and of SIF’s obligations
thereunder, particularly those related to the procurement, audit
and, more generally, to the carrying out of the Project.

3.    In order to carry out Part A of the Project, SIF shall abide
by the procedures specified for its operations under the legal
provisions referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement, in
the Operational Manual and in the provisions of this Loan Agreement.
In compliance with such obligation, SIF shall enter, in respect to
each Approved Subproject, into the corresponding Subproject
Agreement.

4.    Each Subproject Agreement shall include the stipulations
included in Part C of this Schedule, and each Eligible Approved

Subproject shall be processed before the Bank pursuant to the
provisions of Part B of this Schedule.

Part B:     Procedures for presenting Approved Subprojects to the
            Bank

1.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an Eligible
Approved Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Approved Subproject shall have been approved by the
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one
hundred and twenty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the application and information required under
paragraph 2 (a) of this Part B of this Schedule in respect of such
Subproject; or

      (b)   the Approved Subproject shall have been a free-limit
Subproject for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than one hundred and twenty days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph 2 (b) of this Part B of the Schedule in respect of such
free-limit Subproject. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-
limit Approved Subproject shall be a Subproject the estimated cost
of which shall not exceed the sum of $100,000 equivalent, when added
to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed
by SIF for such Subproject, provided, however, that in respect of
the first Approved Subproject under each subprogram category in the
subproject menu of the Operational Manual proposed to be financed
under the Project, irrespective of the cost thereof, or such
subsequent number of Approved Subprojects in each such category as
the Bank shall reasonably request, no such Approved Subproject shall
be considered a free-limit Approved Subproject irrespective of the
estimated cost thereof.

2.    (a)   When presenting an Approved Subproject (other than a
free-limit Approved Subproject) to the Bank for approval, SIF shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Executing and
Sponsoring Entities and the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the
Subproject in question, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
estimated cost thereof; and (ii) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by SIF for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Approved Subproject shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
aforesaid Entities and Beneficiary and the Approved Subproject,
including a summary description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and the estimated cost of
such Approved Subproject.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1996.

Part C:Terms and Conditions for Approved Subprojects

1.    SIF financing in respect of each approved Subproject shall not
exceed the percentage of Subproject cost required to ensure the
mandatory financing thereof by Executing or Sponsoring Entities, or
both, as required in respect of different types of Subprojects and
different areas of the Borrower’s territories under the Operational
Manual.

2.    Environmental aspects of Subprojects shall be analyzed and
taken care for at the time of the appraisal thereof.

3.    No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an
Approved Subproject shall be eligible for SIF financing unless the

corresponding Subproject Agreement shall have been entered into, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, whereby SIF shall
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and SIF,
including the right to:

      (a)   require the Executing Entity to carry out the Approved
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of SIF funds be procured by SIF in accordance with procedures
consistent with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement;
and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Approved Subproject in question;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank or financiers such as the Bank, or BCIE or KfW or others,
as the case may be, if the financier in question shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Approved Subproject in question, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;

      (d)   demand from the Executing Entity the compliance with all
commitments thereof related to the carrying out of the Approved
Subproject including the contribution by such Entity of all such
resources as such Entity shall have been required to contribute
according to the appraisal report for the Subproject in question,
including funds; provided, however, that, if the Executing Entity
and the Sponsor Entity in respect of the Approved Subproject in
question shall have not been one and the same the aforesaid shall
apply to the corresponding Sponsor Entity; and provided, further,
that, if the Executing Entity and the Beneficiary were not one and
the same or if the Beneficiary shall have been required by said
report to contribute to the recovery of the costs of the investments
associated to the Approved Subproject in question during the
Execution of the Project or after the completion thereof, the
aforesaid shall also apply to the Beneficiary;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or SIF shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration and operation of the Approved Subproject and to the
benefits to be derived therefrom; and

      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Executing Entity
to use the proceeds of the SIF financing upon failure by such Entity
or the Sponsor Entity or the Beneficiary, or any combination
thereof, as the case may be, to comply with their respective
obligations under the Subproject Agreement.

4.    If in respect of any given Approved Subproject the Beneficiary
is not legally responsible for the carrying out of the Subproject,
no SIF financing shall be made available for such Subproject unless
SIF shall have obtained, by means of the signing of the Subproject
Agreement by such Beneficiary all the rights mentioned in 4 above
with respect to the Beneficiary to the extent such rights are
required to adequately protect the interest of SIF, the Borrower and
the financiers referred to in 3 (c) above.

                            SCHEDULE 6

Part A:     Agenda for Annual Reviews under Section 3.03 of this
            Loan Agreement

      Each of the aforesaid reviews will determine the efficiency
and effectiveness of SIF on the basis of the key performance
indicators set forth in Part B below and on the analysis of the
following items:

1.    Characteristics of, and performance by, Sponsoring Entities.

2.    Best practices applied to different types of Approved

Subprojects, including environmental aspects.

3.    Distribution of Approved Subprojects and different types
thereof among the different municipal jurisdictions, particularly in
respect of the mix between county seats and rural villages.

4.    Participation of women and indigenous groups in Approved
Subprojects and SIF activities in general.

5.    Mean response time spent by SIF in reacting to requests from
Sponsoring Entities, for each phase of Subproject cycle.

6.    Effectiveness of coordination between SIF and the respective
Ministries.

7.    Institutional development of SIF and adequacy of its staffing
both for SIF headquarters and regional offices.

8.    Experience in the use by SIF management and personnel of the
management information system and the geographical information
system.

9.    Participation of NGOs in Approved Subprojects and in SIF
activities in general.

10.   Adequacy of financing made available by NGOs, Municipalities
and Beneficiaries.

11.   Progress in achieving targets set forth in the Borrower’s
Letter of Social Sector Development Policy referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement.

12.   Compliance with SIF institutional and staff development plans
agreed with the Bank and SIF from time to time.

13.   Progress in carrying out Part C of the Project.

14.   In addition to the above topics the second annual review will
analyze the feasibility of decentralizing approval of Subprojects to
regional offices of SIF, and the second and the third reviews will
analyze the findings and recommendations, and the application
thereof, of the studies on best practices and welfare impact of
selected Approved Subprojects, studies to be completed one month
prior to each such review on the basis of the mechanism to be
implemented under Part B.2 (e) of the Project.

Part B:     Monitoring Indicators for and targets purposes of the
            aforesaid reviews

      For purposes of this Part the Region shall adapt Annex 11 of
      the SAR.

                    KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

      The following indicators will be the basis for the annual
reviews to be undertaken by December 31 of 1994, 1995, and 1996.

INDICATOR       SOURCE          OBJECTIVE               TARGETS (BASE JUNE 93)
                                            DECEMBER 94 DECEMBER 95 DECEMBER 96

           PROJECTS - PROMOTION & APPRAISAL

1. Number of    Subproject    Determine         1,000     1,200       1,400
   Subproject   database      actual demand
   requests                   for SIF’s
                              financing and
                              evaluate SIF’s
                              promotion
                              capacity

2. Number of    Subproject    Determine SIF’s     670      1,000      1,200

   Subprojects  database      appraisal
   appraised                  capacity

3. Number of    Personnel      Assure that SIF     10         12         14
   evaluators   management     has enough
                               professionals

4. Number of    Subproject    Determine SIF’s      6.7        6.9       7.1
   Subprojects  database      marginal evalua-
   appraised                  tion capacity
   by evaluator
   per month

5. Number of    Subproject    Determine relation-   580        720      740
   Approved     database      ship of projects
   Subprojects                approved to projects
                              appraised

6. Total cost   Subproject    Determine SIF’s pro-    $18      $40      $68

   of Approved  database      ject processing        million  million million
   Subprojects                capability

7. Number of    Subproject    Determine possible       0.6       0.7    0.7
   Approved     database and  bottlenecks in
   Subprojects  procurement   procurement
   with         department    proceedures
   Subproject
   Agreement/
   Number
   of Approved
   Subprojects

8. Time span    Supervision   Determine possible     10 days  8 days 5 days
   between      database      bottlenecks in the
   Subproject                 supervision or
   Agreement                  administration
   signing                    department
   and first
   disbursement

9. Number of    Supervision   Determine SIF’s            360     520    570
   Approved     database      overall processing
   Subprojects                capacity
   started

10.Total cost   Supervision   Determine SIF’s           $11      $23    $68
   or Approved  database      overall processing      million  million million
   Subprojects                capacity
   started

11.Percentage                  Improve appraisal       < 20%   < 10%  < 10%
   of Subproject               cost estimates
   Agreements
   modified
   because
   of cost
   overruns

12.Disburse-    Supervision   Determine execution         16%    18%    20%
   ments for    database;     levels, balance to
   the period   administra-   be disbursed & general
                tion data-    SIF capacity to disburse
                base          in a given time period

13.Number of    Personnel     Determine SIF’s            < 30%  < 30%  < 30%
   Approved     management    capacity to handle
   Subprojects  & super-      its current
   in actual    vision        commitments
   execution/   database
   Number
   of super-

   visors

14.Percent of   Annual        Assure adequate levels     < 20% < 10%  < 10%
   Approved     Review        of quality
   Subprojects
   judged of
   low quality
   by independent
   physical
   audit

15.Percent of   Subproject    Ensure adequate             16%    18%    20%
   funds        database      emphasis on social
   commited                   assistance
   to social                  subprojects
   assistance
   Approved
   Subprojects

16.Percent of   Subproject    Ensure funds reach        < 30%  < 30%  < 30%
   funds        database      poorer communities
   committed
   to munici-
   palities
   deviating
   from
   targets

Beginning and/or completion of the following activities under the
corresponding Parts of the Project will be monitored:

Evaluation and Completion of Management
 Information System Implementation
 (Part B.(2) (a) of Project):     To be completed by June 30,
                                  1994

Implementation of Geographical
 Information System
 (Part B.(2) (b) of Project):     To be completed by June 30,
                                  1994

Design and Implementation of Mechanism
 to Evaluate Welfare Impact
 of Subprojects (Part B.(2) (e)
 of Project)                      To be completed by December 31,
                                  1994

Best Practice Studies
 (Part B.(2) (c) of Project)      Begin 3 mos. and complete 1
                                  mo. before annual reviews

Evaluation of SIF Effectiveness
 in Reaching Targets
 (Part B.(2) (d) of Project)      Begin 6 mos. and complete 3
                                  mos. before annual reviews

Analysis of Structured
 Interviews                       Begin 6 mos. and complete 3
                                  mos. before annual reviews

Analysis of Survey                Begin 4 mos. and complete 1
                                  mo. before annual reviews
_____________________________

* Cumulative amounts.

