d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3626 PH

          (Power Transmission and Rehabilitation Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                    NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION

                       Dated August 13, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3626 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL POWER
CORPORATION (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) The Republic of the Philippines (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan, and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS: (C) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a) "Charter" means the Borrower’s constituent instrument
(Charter No. RA 6395), dated September 10, 1971, as amended to the
date of this Agreement, published in the Guarantor’s Official
Journal, dated February 7, 1972, establishing the Borrower as a
state-owned power generation company duly authorized and operating
under the Guarantor’s laws and regulations;

      (b) "DENR" means the Guarantor’s Department of Environment and
Natural Resources;

      (c) "Energy Sector Plan" means the Guarantor’s plan for
reforming its power sector and promoting energy sufficiency, both at
the national and local levels, to be implemented by the Guarantor
and its electricity power generation and transmission utilities and
related power entities, as such plan was approved by the Office of
the President of the Republic of the Philippines on November 17,
1992;

      (d) "EOIS" means the Efficiency and Operational Improvement
Study, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and Sub-section
3.02(c)(i) of the Guarantee Agreement, to be carried out pursuant to
the provisions of the Japanese Grant Agreement, dated July 9, 1992,
between the Bank, acting as administrator of grant funds provided by
Japan, and the Borrower, for the purposes of improving the
Borrower’s overall operational and administrative efficiency and its
managerial and financial systems,  all in accordance with the
provisions of said sections;

      (e) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means collectively each of said
Fiscal Year;

      (f) "Power Development Program" means the Borrower’s five (5)-
year investment program and related financing plan for the efficient
expansion and development of its power generation and transmission
systems;

      (g) "ERB" means the Energy Regulatory Board established to
review and approve applications for any increase in the electricity
tariffs in the Philippines; and

      (h)  "MERALCO" means Manila Electric Company.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent

            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, energy, engineering, financial, administrative,
environmental and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. (a) Not later than October 1 of each Fiscal
Year, beginning the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1993, the
Borrower shall exchange views and review with the Bank and the
Guarantor the progress achieved by the Borrower in implementing the
Power Development Program during the preceding Fiscal Year.

      (b) Based upon said review, the Bank, the Borrower and the
Guarantor shall determine the actions necessary for improving the
Power Development Program, and the Borrower’s implementation
thereof, in respect of the following Fiscal Year.

      (c) The Borrower shall promptly thereafter, taking into
account the Bank’s views and recommendations, carry out the
recommendations of said review with due diligence and efficiency,
and shall take all necessary measures to achieve the objectives
thereof.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1993, review with the Bank and the Guarantor the findings and
recommendations of the EOIS and, promptly thereafter, implement the
recommendations which shall have been agreed upon between the Bank,
the Borrower and the Guarantor, all with due diligence and
efficiency.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall promptly take all action
necessary to ensure that: (a) not later than December 31, 1993, it
has obtained from DENR all environmental clearances and related
authorizations required for the rehabilitation of its Bataan thermal
power plant, to be carried out under Part B of the Project; (b) any
adverse environmental impact of the Project, or any part thereof, is
effectively mitigated in a timely manner which is acceptable to the
Bank; and (c) adequate measures, acceptable to the Bank, are
promptly adopted and carried out for the resettlement and
rehabilitation of all persons involuntarily displaced as a result of
the Project, or any part thereof.

      Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, beginning on
December 31, 1993, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a) monthly project procurement progress reports and quarterly
project implementation progress reports, of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on such progress achieved by the
Borrower during the immediately preceding month and quarter; and
(b) semi-annual projections, based on a methodology and calculations
acceptable to the Bank, of its power demand, capital expenditures
and financial statements.

      Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1993,
recruit qualified consultants, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to prepare an action
plan, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to
establish the appropriate methods and specifications for the
optimal, and environmentally sound, rehabilitation of its Bataan
thermal power plant to be carried out under Part B of the Project,
and to assist in the implementation of said action plan.

      (c) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1993,
establish rules and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to
facilitate private sector participation in its energy generation
projects, including its build-operate-transfer and build-transfer-
operate projects, which procedures shall include, inter alia, the
standardization of bidding documents.

                        ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound economic, energy,
engineering, financial, administrative, environmental and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound economic, energy,
engineering, financial, administrative, environmental and public
utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times promptly take
all action necessary to: (a) maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations; and (b) acquire, maintain, renew
and otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, but without
limitation, land rights), powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its operations and in
carrying out of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 4.05. Except in the ordinary course of its business,
the Borrower shall not, without the Bank’s prior consent, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets which are required for the efficient conduct of its
operations, or the carrying out of the Project.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

     (b) The Borrower shall:

              (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

              (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

             (ii)  retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for each of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1992, an annual return of not
less than eight percent (8%) of the average current net value of the
Borrower’s fixed assets in operation.

      (b)   Before December 1 in each of its Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s

Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The annual return shall be calculated by
                   dividing the Borrower’s net operating income for
                   the Fiscal Year in question by one half (1/2) of
                   the sum of the current net value of the
                   Borrower’s fixed assets in operation at the
                   beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.

            (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
                   operating revenues less total operating
                   expenses.

            (iii)  The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.

            (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                   depreciation in a manner consistent with
                   generally accepted accounting principles.

            (v)    The average current gross value of the
                   Borrower’s fixed assets in operation shall be
                   calculated as one half (1/2) of the sum of the
                   gross value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in
                   operation at the beginning and at the end of the
                   Fiscal Year, as valued from time to time in
                   accordance with sound and consistently
                   maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                   the Bank.

            (vi)   The term "current net value of the Borrower’s
                   fixed assets in operation" means the gross value
                   of the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation less
                   the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
                   valued from time to time in accordance with
                   sound and consistently maintained methods of
                   valuation satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall; (i) not later than
December 31, 1993, based on a methodology and calculations
acceptable to the Bank, complete and incorporate into its accounting
and auditing system a current valuation of all its fixed assets in
operation; and (ii) each Fiscal Year thereafter duly revalue such
fixed assets in operation in a timely manner, and based on a
methodology and procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "fixed assets
in operation" means all tangible assets, including, but without
limitation, land, buildings, plant and equipment, held for the
production of goods or services, or for administrative purposes.

      Section 5.04. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least one and one-
third (1.3) times the estimated debt service requirements of the
Borrower in such year on all of its debt, including the debt to be
incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one (1)

                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.

            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement (including, without
                   limitation, this Agreement), or other instrument
                   providing for such debt, or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.

            (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations and net non-
                         operating income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.

            (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in sub-section (A) above.

            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

            (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                   (12) months prior to the incurrence of the debt
                   in question, which both the Bank and the
                   Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which
                   the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
                   acceptability, provided that no event has
                   occurred since such notification which has, or
                   may reasonably be expected in the future to
                   have, a material adverse effect on the financial
                   condition or future operating results of the
                   Borrower.

            (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing market rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.05. Not later than December 26, 1993, the Borrower
shall implement energy demand charges, based on a methodology and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, for the purposes of improving the
structure of its energy tariffs so as to better reflect the economic
cost of its provision of power supply.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a) The Charter shall have been amended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower or the Guarantor to perform any of their respective
obligations under this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement.

      (b) The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment or dissolution
of the Borrower, or for the suspension of any of its operations.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: (a) that
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days, after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and (b) that the event specified in paragraph (b) of said
Section 6.01 shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the approval (which may be an interim authorization to
            implement) by ERB of an automatic tariff indexing
            mechanism acceptable to the Bank to change the tariffs
            charged by the Borrower by reference to changes in the
            Borrower’s fuel cost and purchased energy;

      (b)   the presentation by the Borrower to ERB of a
            satisfactory application for the restructuring of the
            Borrower’s tariffs to include energy demand charges to
            MERALCO, based on a methodology and procedures
            acceptable to the Bank (as part of the restructuring
            required under Section 5.05 of this Agreement for the
            purposes of improving the structure of the Borrower’s
            energy tariff charged to MERALCO and the Borrower’s
            other customers so as to better reflect the economic
            cost of the Borrower’s provision of power supply).

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for

              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            The President
            National Power Corporation
            Quezon Avenue
            East Triangle, Diliman
            Quezon City, Philippines

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   NAPOCOR                       742-40120
                   Manila                        (PM)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                         NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION

                         By /s/ Francisco Viray
                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Equipment, mate-       70,000,000  )      100% of foreign
      rials and related                  )      expenditures,
      installation                       )      100% of local
      under Part A                       )      expenditures
      of the Project                     )      (ex-factory
                                         )      cost) and
(2)   Rehabilitation         31,000,000  )      70% of local

      equipment, mate-                   )      expenditures for
      rials and related                  )      other items
      installation                       )      procured
      under Part B                       )      locally
      of the Project                     )

(3)   Consultants’            2,000,000         100%
      services

(4)   Unallocated             7,000,000
                            ___________

      TOTAL                 110,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor; and

      (b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed twenty-two million
dollars ($22,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories (1) and
(2) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after September 1, 1992; and (b) no withdrawals shall be made,
and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower, for expenditures under Category (2), unless
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank a rehabilitation and
environmental protection action plan, acceptable to the Bank for the
rehabilitation of the Borrower’s Bataan thermal plant, to be carried
out under Part B of the Project.

                          SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to inter alia: (a) alleviate
power shortages within the Luzon province by expanding and
reinforcing the Borrower’s related power transmission system, and
rehabilitating its Bataan thermal power plant; (b) improve the
efficiency and overall performance of the energy sector in the
Republic of the Philippines; and (c) strengthen the Borrower’s
financial viability and institutional capabilities to enable it to
undertake its long-term investment program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Transmission System Expansion and Reinforcement.

      Expanding and reinforcing the Borrower’s power transmission
system to meet the requirements of incremental power generation,
through the provision of power transmission equipment and materials,
including: (a) transmission lines, wooden poles, conductors,
insulators and supports, and the installation of power transmission
lines; and (b) power transformers, switching bays, capacitator
banks, protection and power line carriers and communication
equipment.

Part B: Rehabilitation of the Bataan Thermal Power Plant.

      Rehabilitating both the 75 MW Unit No. 1 and 150 MW Unit No.
2 of the Borrower’s oil-fired thermal power plant at Bataan, through
the provision and installation of rehabilitation equipment and

materials.

Part C: Institutional Strengthening.

      Provision of technical assistance services to assist the
Borrower in carrying out, inter alia: (a) the EOIS; (b) a master
plan for its extra high voltage power transmission; and (c) the
rehabilitation of its Bataan thermal power plant under Part B of the
Project.

                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 1995.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1999                            2,055,000
September 15, 1999                        2,135,000
March 15, 2000                            2,210,000
September 15, 2000                        2,295,000
March 15, 2001                            2,380,000
September 15, 2001                        2,470,000
March 15, 2002                            2,560,000
September 15, 2002                        2,655,000
March 15, 2003                            2,755,000
September 15, 2003                        2,855,000
March 15, 2004                            2,960,000
September 15, 2004                        3,070,000
March 15, 2005                            3,185,000
September 15, 2005                        3,305,000
March 15, 2006                            3,425,000
September 15, 2006                        3,555,000
March 15, 2007                            3,685,000
September 15, 2007                        3,825,000
March 15, 2008                            3,965,000
September 15, 2008                        4,115,000
March 15, 2009                            4,265,000
September 15, 2009                        4,425,000
March 15, 2010                            4,590,000
September 15, 2010                        4,760,000
March 15, 2011                            4,935,000
September 15, 2011                        5,120,000
March 15, 2012                            5,310,000
September 15, 2012                        5,505,000
March 15, 2013                            5,710,000
September 15, 2013                        5,920,000
_____________________________

*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on

                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured within the
territory of the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Limited International Bidding

      Wood poles for power transmission lines estimated to cost up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to six million five hundred
thousand dollars ($6,500,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from at least
five (5) qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Local Competitive Bidding

      Goods and related installation services estimated to cost the
equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000), may be procured under

contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Direct Contracting

      Subject to the Bank’s prior approval, contracts for the
procurement of transmission line protection and communication
equipment, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to three million
five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000), and turbine-generator
and boiler parts and related materials, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000), may be
awarded after direct negotiations with original suppliers of
existing plant in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

