d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3567 TU

                          Loan Agreement

        (Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated March 25, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3567 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement of even date herewith (the GET Grant
Agreement) the Bank, acting as Trustee of the Global Environmental
Trust Fund, has agreed to make a grant (the GET Grant) to the
Borrower in an amount equivalent to three million seven hundred ten
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,710,000) to assist in
financing Part E of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the GET Grant Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated March 11, 1992 and March 25, 1992
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry, or any
successor thereto;

      (d)   "MARA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs, or any successor thereto;

      (e)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, or
any successor thereto;

      (f)   "the three Provinces" means the Borrower’s Provinces of
Malatya, Elazig and Adiyaman; and

      (g)   "GDRS" means the General Directorate of Rural Services
of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy seven million dollars ($77,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency, acceptable to
the Bank, a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the

provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the

            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                          ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic, technical, environmental and
agricultural practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, through, inter alia, adequate annual budgetary allocations,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GET
Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the GET Grant Agreement; provided,
however, that the preceding shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that (a) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the GET
Grant Agreement, and (b) adequate funds for Part E of the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik Hazine Ve
              Disticaret Mustesarligi
            Inonu Bulvari
            Emek/Ankara
            Republic of Turkey

            Cable address:Telex:

                   MALIYE-HAZINE           821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                           821-42689 (ANK-TR)

                                           Rapifax:

                                           90-4-2128737

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                         By /s/ Mahfi Eglimez
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Parts A through D of
the Project, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works                     31,100,000        60%

(2) Goods                     30,100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,

                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 90%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Apiculture                 2,400,000        50%
    kits

(4) Consultants’               6,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

(5) Operating                  3,400,000        50%
    expenditures

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Refunding of                 750,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(7) Unallocated                3,250,000
                              ----------

    TOTAL                     77,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "operating expenditures" means expenditures for
fuel and repairs made on account of the operation and maintenance of
vehicles and earthmoving equipment financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and utilized in the carrying out of the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after November 1, 1992.

                          SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restore sustainable
range, forest and farming activities and increase productivity and
improve household incomes through the introduction of new
technologies in the three Provinces; and (b) establish and manage
in-situ gene conservation of globally significant herbaceous and
woody species indigenous to the Borrower’s territory.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Watershed Rehabilitation in the three Provinces

      Carrying out a program to rehabilitate about 54 micro-
catchments in the upper Euphrates watershed through a series of
treatments on cultivated, range and forest lands, including
treatments to reduce fallow, increase fodder and fuelwood
production, promote soil conservation and soil and moisture
conserving farming techniques, improve range management and
rehabilitate and afforestate forests and range lands.

Part B:     Income Supporting Activities in the three Provinces

      Carrying out a program to assist the local population in the
implementation of activities to increase household incomes,
including activities to expand small-scale irrigation, dry land
terracing, horticulture, apiculture and to improve local livestock.

Part C:     Adaptive Research in the three Provinces

      Carrying out a program of on-farm, range lands and forests
adaptive research and demonstrations to improve the effectiveness
and sustainability of the rehabilitation treatments under Part A of
the Project and the small scale irrigation and dry land farming
activities under Part B of the Project.

Part D:     Institutional Support

(1)   Carrying out a program to strengthen the institutional
capabilities and improve the coordination in services delivery and
responsiveness to the local population needs of the Borrower’s
departments and agencies involved in the carrying out of Parts A
through C of the Project, including through the provision of
technical assistance, staff training, equipment, machinery and
vehicles.

(2)   The provisions of technical assistance, staff and farmers
training, studies, equipment and vehicles to be utilized in carrying
out a program to develop and implement: (a) policies and procedures
for the planning and management of the activities under Parts A
through C of the Project, in particular through the preparation and
implementation of microcatchment plans, and for the monitoring and
evaluation of the execution thereof; (b) a management information
system and a geographical information system for watershed mapping;
(c) a framework for strengthening the local population’s
participating in the planning and execution of the activities under
Parts A and B of the Project and the close cooperation between
involved villages and the Borrower’s departments and agencies
responsible for the carrying out of said activities; and (d) a
mechanism for assessing the feasibility of, and the development of
plans for, adapting Project activities under Part A of the Project
for extension to other parts of the Borrower’s territory.

Part E:     Gene Conservation

      Carrying out a program to establish and manage in-situ gene
conservation of globally significant herbaceous and woody species,
including: (1) genetic resources survey of selected sites and
designation of gene management zones; (2) gene resource inventories
and identification, establishment monitoring and data management of
gene management zones; (3) development of a national plan for in-
situ conservation of wild crop relatives and woody species; and (4)
development and implementation of a plan to strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the Borrower’s departments and
agencies involved in gene conservation and to ensure their effective
collaboration in the planning, establishment and management of gene
conservation, including the provision of training, technical
assistance, and specialized equipment.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.

                          SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On January 1 and July 1

      beginning July 1, 1998
      through   July 1, 2009               3,210,000

and on January 1, 2010                     3,170,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of

the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$75,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Beehives and related equipment may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Office, laboratory and survey equipment and computers
estimated to cost the equivalent per contract of less than:
(a) $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $300,000; and (b) $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $600,000, all in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

3.    Fertilizer, sacking, bags, fencing and office materials, seed
vetch, sainfoin and alfalfa may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Agricultural inputs, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $8,000,000, acorn, grass and forage seed and seedlings, may be
procured under contracts awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

5.    Works, other than those to be procured in accordance with the
procedures described in Part C.5 hereof, shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

6.    Reforestation works, oak coppice rehabilitation and some GDRS
activities may be carried out by force account, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) the first contract for works in
each of three Provinces; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the

preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Parts A through D of the Project

1.    Overall responsibility for the coordination and supervision of
the carrying out of Parts A through D of the Project shall be
assigned by the Borrower to MOF. For this purpose, the Borrower
shall: (a) ensure that MOF shall maintain a national project
coordination and support unit with staff and other resources and
terms of reference agreed with the Bank; and (b) maintain a national
steering committee, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
to provide policy guidance to MOF and its said unit, chaired by the
Director for the Research, Planning and Coordination Board of MOF
and comprising suitable representatives of MOF’s Directorates for
Afforestation and Erosion Control, for Forestry and for Village
Development, MARA’s Directorates for Agricultural Production and
Development, for Rural Services and for Agricultural Research, and
the Borrower’s Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Affairs’
Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations.

2.    Responsibility for the carrying out of Project activities
within each of the three Provinces shall be assigned by the Borrower
to a provincial Project implementation unit to function under the
supervision and with the assistance of the national project
coordination and support unit referred to in paragraph 1 hereof and
to be maintained by the Borrower for each of the three Provinces
with staff and other resources and terms of reference agreed with

the Bank. Membership of each such unit shall comprise the respective
Province’s Directors of MOF and MARA. Each such unit shall function
with the advice of a provincial steering committee, chaired by the
Governor of the respective Province and comprising the respective
Province’s Directors for Forestry of MOF, and for Agriculture and
for Rural Services of MARA, to be maintained by the Borrower under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank. Furthermore, each such unit
shall maintain a planning group for the preparation, under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank, of annual work programs and budgets
for the rehabilitation of micro-catchments under Part A of the
Project within its respective Province. Each such group shall
comprise suitable representatives of the staff of MOF and MARA
involved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project within the
respective Province, MARA’s Village Group Technicians for the
respective Province and representatives of the population of the
villages benefitting from the rehabilitation of micro-catchments
under Part A of the Project.

3.    The Borrower shall: (a) employ or cause to be employed
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference,
and on the basis of a time schedule, agreed with the Bank, in order
to assist in the carrying out Parts A through D of the Project; (b)
ensure that the rehabilitation of micro-catchments under Part A of
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with annual programs
(i) prepared by the respective planning groups referred to in
paragraph 2 hereof in accordance with the terms of reference
indicated therein, (ii) reviewed and endorsed by the respective
provincial Project implementation unit referred to in paragraph 2
hereof and the national project coordination and support unit
referred to in paragraph 1 hereof, (iii) finalized and approved by
the national steering committee referred to in paragraph 1 hereof
after reviewing the same with the Bank and taking into consideration
the Bank’s comments thereon, and (iv) agreed to by representatives
of the population of villages benefiting from such rehabilitation of
micro-catchments; (c) ensure that the topics for the adaptive
research under Part C of the Project shall be selected under
criteria agreed with the Bank and carried out through the Borrower’s
regional research institutes in the three Governorates under
arrangements agreed with the Bank; (d) ensure that the program for
income supporting activities under Part B of the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with plans and criteria for determining
the eligibility of members of the local population benefitting
thereunder agreed with the Bank; (e) ensure that the staff and
farmers training under Part D of the Project shall be carried out in
accordance with programs and criteria for the selection of
candidates thereunder agreed with the Bank; and (f) ensure that
pesticides to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
selected, stored and applied in accordance with appropriate pest and
pesticide management practices agreed with the Bank.

4.    In order to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of
Parts A through D of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare,
through the national project coordination and support unit referred
to in paragraph 1 hereof and under terms of reference agreed with
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, by July 31, 1995, a report on the
progress during the period preceding said report in carrying out
said Parts and the achievement of the objectives thereof and the
measures recommended and the resources required to ensure the proper
carrying out of said Parts and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period after said report. The Borrower shall
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to review with the Borrower
the conclusions and recommendations of said report, and, thereafter,
adopt and implement all such measures as shall be required to ensure
the efficient carrying out of said Parts and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
said report and the Bank’s comments thereon.

B.    Part E of the Project

1.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the carrying out
of Part E of the Project shall be assigned by the Borrower to a
national steering committee to be maintained under terms of

reference agreed with the Bank and to comprise representatives of
MOF, MARA and MOE and of MOF’s and MARA’s research departments and
regional institutes.

2.    Responsibility for the carrying out of Part E of the Project
shall be assigned by the Borrower to MOF and MARA in respect of
subparts (1), (2) and (4) thereof and to MOE in respect of subpart
(3) thereof, in accordance with arrangements agreed with the Bank.
In order to facilitate proper coordination of the activities of MOF,
MARA and MOE under Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, an
implementation committee comprising representatives of the staff of
MOF, MARA and MOE involved in the carrying out of said Part E.

3.    The Borrower shall: (a) employ or cause to be employed
consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
agreed with the Bank, in order to assist in the carrying out of Part
E of the Project; (b) maintain a scientific advisory committee,
comprising a panel of experts with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference agreed with the Bank, to provide technical
guidance to the Borrower’s staff involved in the carrying out of
Part E of the Project; and (c) ensure that the training under Part
E of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with programs
and criteria for the selection of candidates thereunder agreed with
the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant

                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account

for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

