d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3557 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

         (Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

          NATIONAL POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY

                       Dated April 29, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3557 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL POST AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY (hereinafter referred to as the
Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower has contracted or intends to contract from
external sources of funds (the Cofinanciers) loans or credits in an
aggregate amount equivalent to approximately three hundred seventy
two million dollars ($372,000,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the
Cofinanciers’ Financing Agreements) entered into or to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations, as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Telecommunications Sector Development Program" means
the program of policies, objectives and actions designed to
restructure and further the efficient development of the
telecommunications sector, set forth in a letter dated January 13,
1993 from the Guarantor to the Bank;

      (c)   "Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Telecommunications Investment Program" means the
Borrower’s telecommunications investment program for the fiscal
years from 1992 through 1997, as the same may be amended from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of this
Agreement;

      (e)   "ONPT Performance Contract" means the agreement dated
January 14, 1993 between the Guarantor and the Borrower (Contrat de
Programme) setting forth undertakings designed to enable the
Borrower to carry on its business in a manner consistent with the
Telecommunications Sector Development Program;

      (f)   "Operational and Financial Targets" means the
operational and financial targets for the Borrower during the fiscal
years from 1992 through 1997 agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

      (g)   "1992 Telecommunications Bills" means all amounts due
and payable as at December 31, 1992 by the Guarantor’s
administrative subdivisions to the Borrower for the provision of
telecommunications services by the Borrower; and

      (h)   "Basic Legislation" means the Guarantor’s Law (Dahir)
No. 1-84-8 dated January 10, 1984 and Decree (Decret) No. 2-84-20
dated January 11, 1984 pursuant to which the Borrower has been
established and is operating; and the Guarantor’s Law (Dahir) No. 1-
59-271 dated April 14, 1960 and Law (Dahir) No. 1-61-402 dated June
30, 1962 governing the Guarantor’s financial control of its public

enterprises, including the Borrower; all as the same may be amended
from time to time.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in a currency and a
financial institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the

                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Telecommunications
Sector Development Program and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

            Management and Operations of the Borrower;
                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with the Telecommunications
Sector Development Program and in conformity with sound admini-
strative, financial, engineering and public utility practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) at all times take all
action required to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.

      Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   at all times take all necessary action to achieve the
Operational and Financial Targets;

      (b)   maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to

monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the achievement of the Operational and Financial Targets;

      (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than June 30
of each year a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on the conclusions and recommendations indicated by the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section in respect of the preceding calendar year;

      (d)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
October 31 of each year any revisions to be introduced into the
Operational and Financial Targets for the following year on the
basis of the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section;
and

      (e)   thereafter, promptly introduce such revisions into the
Operational and Financial Targets as shall have been agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower.

      Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    carry out its Telecommunications Investment
                   Program with due diligence and efficiency and in
                   conformity with sound administrative, financial,
                   economic, engineering and public utility
                   practices; and

           (ii)    consult with the Bank before introducing any
                   major change in the Telecommunications
                   Investment Program and ensure that no such
                   change shall be introduced in said Program
                   unless and until the Bank and the Borrower shall
                   have agreed that such change is financially and
                   economically justified.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section, the term "major change" in
the Telecommunications Investment Program means any change in said
Program estimated to result or resulting in an increase of 15% or
more of the aggregate amount of investments included in said Program
for any one of the Borrower’s fiscal years.

      (c)   The provisions of Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement
dated May 29, 1987 between the Bank and the Borrower for a
Telecommunications Project (Loan No. 2798 MOR) are hereby amended to
read as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, funds from internal sources
related to telecommunications operations equivalent to not less than
40% of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred for that year.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources related to
                   telecommunications" means the difference
                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to telecommunications operations,
                         consumer deposits and consumer

                         contributions in aid of construction and
                         net non-operating income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         telecommunications operations, including
                         administration, adequate maintenance and
                         taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
                         (excluding provision for depreciation and
                         other non-cash operating charges), debt
                         service requirements, all cash dividends
                         and other cash distributions of surplus
                         and other cash outflows other than capital
                         expenditures.

           (ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

           (iv)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.

            (v)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      (e)   The provisions of Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement
dated May 29, 1987 between the Bank and the Borrower for a
Telecommunications Project (Loan No. 2798 MOR) are hereby amended to
read as set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this Section.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Any part of the Telecommunications Sector Development
Program shall not have been carried out or a situation shall have
arisen which renders improbable the carrying out of any part of the
Telecommunications Sector Development Program.

      (b)   The Basic Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project
or to perform any of its other obligations under this Agreement.

      (c)   The Guarantor or the Borrower shall have failed to
perform any of its respective obligations under the ONPT Performance
Contract.

      (d)   The proceeds of the financing provided under the

Cofinanciers’ Financing Agreements shall not have become available
to the Borrower pursuant to the schedule of required availability
agreed to between the Bank and the Borrower; provided, however, that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.

      (e)   (i)    Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made
                         to the Borrower for the financing of the
                         Project shall have been suspended,
                         cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                         part, pursuant to the terms thereof; or

                   (B)   any such loan or credit shall have become
                         due and payable prior to the agreed
                         maturity thereof.

           (ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Guarantor shall have paid to the Borrower the
balance of the 1992 Telecommunications Bills.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the

purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Office National des Postes et Telecommunications
            Avenue Moulay Hassan
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

                                           Telex:

                                             31998

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                         NATIONAL POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                           AUTHORITY

                         By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Transmission             11,500,000       70%
      equipment and
      associated

      installation and
      training

(2)   Cables, poles,           17,200,000       100% of foreign
      and associated                            expenditures,
      line equipment                            100% of local
      for local networks                        expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Civil works                5,500,000      60%
      for local
      networks

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Turnkey contracts         35,000,000        70%
    and supply and
    erect contracts
    for local
    networks

(5) Data processing            8,000,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(6) Consultants’                          )
    services and                          )
    training                              )
                                          )
    (a)  for Parts A, B       8,000,000   )     100%
         and C of the                     )
         Project                          )
                                          )
    (b)  for Part D of        1,100,000   )
         the Project                      )

(7) Training                  1,500,000         100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(8) Radio frequency            2,200,000        100% of foreign
    control equip-                              expenditures and
    ment for Part D                             80% of local
    of the Project                              expenditures

(9) Unallocated               10,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (2), (3) and (4) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1993.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in (1) restruc-
turing the telecommunications sector so as to improve the efficient
provision of telecommunications services, and (2) further developing
the telecommunications infrastructure throughout the Guarantor’s
territory, all in accordance with the Telecommunications Sector
Development Program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      The carrying out of programs to strengthen the Borrower’s
organization, management and operations in respect of its
telecommunications activities, consisting of:

(1)   implementation of a data processing master plan, including the
provision of computer and office equipment required therefor;

(2)   introduction of suitable systems in the following areas:
management information, finance and accounting, procurement and
inventory management, human resource management, maintenance, and
marketing and customer management;

(3)   design and introduction of a new tariff structure for
telecommunications services;

(4)   development of a strategic planning function and related
systems, and completion of a technical master plan; and

(5)   development and carrying out of staff training programs to
upgrade the technical skills of the Borrower’s staff.

      The carrying out of programs to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of the Borrower’s postal and financial
services in the areas of marketing and customer management, human
resource management, data processing, planning, traffic measurement,
pricing and mail routing.

Part B:

Part C:

(1)   The provision and installation of (a) digitalized local
switching lines and subscriber equipment, (b) related switching
equipment for domestic trunk exchanges, and (c) associated local
networks and subscriber outside plant for the connection of new
subscriber lines.

(2)   The provision and installation of long-distance digital
microwave, optical fiber and coaxial cable transmission systems.

(3)   The provision and installation of equipment to expand the
capacity of existing functions of international switching gateway
facility and satellite earth stations and to connect the national
network to international optical fiber submarine cables.

(4)   The provision and installation of switching and transmission
equipment to upgrade and automate services in rural areas.

(5)   The provision and installation of mobile and maritime radio
and data transmission systems.

Part D:

      Preparation of plans for (1) the further strengthening of the
capabilities of the institutions involved with the provision of
telecommunications services and (2) the computerization of the
management and control of the radio frequency spectrum.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

June 1, 1998                              1,845,000
December 1, 1998                          1,915,000
June 1, 1999                              1,985,000
December 1, 1999                          2,060,000
June 1, 2000                              2,140,000
December 1, 2000                          2,220,000
June 1, 2001                              2,305,000
December 1, 2001                          2,395,000
June 1, 2002                              2,485,000
December 1, 2002                          2,580,000
June 1, 2003                              2,675,000
December 1, 2003                          2,780,000
June 1, 2004                              2,885,000
December 1, 2004                          2,995,000
June 1, 2005                              3,105,000
December 1, 2005                          3,225,000
June 1, 2006                              3,350,000
December 1, 2006                          3,475,000
June 1, 2007                              3,605,000
December 1, 2007                          3,745,000
June 1, 2008                              3,885,000
December 1, 2008                          4,035,000
June 1, 2009                              4,190,000
December 1, 2009                          4,345,000
June 1, 2010                              4,510,000
December 1, 2010                          4,685,000
June 1, 2011                              4,860,000
December 1, 2011                          5,045,000
June 1, 2012                              5,240,000
December 1, 2012                          5,435,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents

      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    With the Bank’s prior agreement, (i) tools and measurement
instruments supplied through a limited number of sources, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, and (ii) radio frequency
control equipment may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Works for the construction of local networks estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $6,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract to be awarded in
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part A of this
Schedule, and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8);

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of theAuthorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

