d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3550 IND

          (Third Community Health and Nutrition Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated  January 21, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3550 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      (B) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount of thirty
million Deutsche Mark (DM 30,000,000) to assist in financing the
Project, on a parallel basis, on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and KfW; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have
                   arisen under which any further
                   withdrawals under the Loan would be
                   inconsistent with the provisions of
                   Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
                   Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

      (b)   "Indigenous People" means social groups in isolated
areas who identify themselves and are identified by others as
members of a distinct cultural group and whose production is
primarily subsistence-oriented;

      (c)   "Kabupaten" means an administrative sub-division of a
province;

      (d)   "MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (f)   "Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s Provinces of
Irian Jaya, Maluku, East Nusa Tenggara, West Java, and Central Java.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety three million five hundred thousand dollars
($93,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in United Stated Dollars a special deposit account in
Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this

Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
                   amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                   from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter
                   equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
                   determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
                   plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On
                   each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
                   this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
                   accrued on the principal amount outstanding
                   during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
                   at the rates applicable during such Interest
                   Period."

            "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
                   Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
                   the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
                   respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)   (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
                   commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
                   October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its
Ministry of Health with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical,
engineering, public health and nutritional practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such

                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a) subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the KfW Grant shall have been
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the KfW Grant Agreement.

      (b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the KfW
Grant Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the KfW
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:           Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY             45799  DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                 44319  DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:           Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                            East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Civil works under         10,800,000      90%
      Parts A.II.1, B.I.1
      and C.3 of the Project

(2)   Equipment (except          6,900,000      100% of foreign
      vehicles), boats,                         expenditures,
      and medical supplies                      100% of local
                                                expenditures

                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Instructional              2,400,000      70%
      materials

(4)   Consultants’              22,900,000      100%
      services,
      research and
      studies

(5)   Fellowships               22,100,000      100%

(6)   Workshops and             19,900,000      70%
      local training

(7)   Project Management         5,400,000      100%

(8)   Unallocated                3,100,000
                                __________

                   TOTAL        93,500,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "Project Management" means expenditures for
local travel and honoraria for central, provincial and Kabupaten
level Project management staff, and for community health workers,
and expenditures for minor office supplies.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
enhance the level of infant, child and maternal health status in the
Project Provinces by, inter alia: (i) developing the provincial and
Kabupaten level capacity to plan, implement and evaluate safe
motherhood, child survival and nutrition programs, including health
and nutrition education and health information systems; (ii)
establishing flexibility in the management of resources at the
Borrower’s central, provincial and Kabupaten levels aimed at
achieving greater specificity and effectiveness in health and
nutrition programs; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the
Directorate General of Community Health of the Borrower’s Ministry
of Health to effectively provide support to the provincial and
Kabupaten efforts in these areas.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Provincial Service Delivery and Capacity Building

I.    Service Delivery in Project Provinces

1.    Construction and rehabilitation of health centers, health sub-
centers, and staff housing, and provision of medical and non-
medical equipment, furniture and vehicles.

2.    Carrying out of studies, including surveys and assessments,
for the development of service delivery strategies, the development
of safe motherhood and child survival and nutrition programs, and
for health and nutrition education strategy design.

3.    Provision of training in safe motherhood, child health, and
nutrition service delivery programs for health providers and
community health workers, including Indigenous People beneficiaries
of the Project.

4.    Provision of drugs to health centers, health sub-centers and
community service posts, and strengthening of the management,
distribution and use of drugs.

5.    Carrying out of workshops for health administrators on the
coordination of new service delivery strategies.

II.   Capacity Building in Project Provinces

1.    Construction and rehabilitation of facilities for provincial
health offices, nursing/paramedic multi-stream academies, nursing
and midwifery schools, and provincial level training centers, and
provision of instructional materials, equipment, furniture and
vehicles.

2.    Provision of technical assistance to provincial and Kabupaten
health offices in health planning and Project management and
organization.

3.    Provision of technical assistance to the Non-Governmental
Organizations Coordination Board in Irian Jaya to strengthen the
administrative capacity of such Board in providing a forum for
regular consultations among non-governmental organizations on
community health and nutrition programs, including methods to
promote the interests of Indigenous People.

4.    Provision of management and administration training for local
non-governmental organizations providing community health and
nutrition services, including those providing such services to
Indigenous People in the Project Provinces.

5.    Provision of local and overseas fellowships for provincial and
Kabupaten health offices staff, health centers staff and Indigenous
People beneficiaries of the Project, in public health, nutrition and
health education disciplines.

6.    Provision of training, including carrying out of workshops, on
annual planning, monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation
for provincial, Kabupaten and health centers staff.

7.    Carrying out of studies on maternal, child health, and
nutrition status, and assessment of the coverage, efficiency and
effectiveness of health and nutrition services.

Part B: Central Support and Capacity Building

I.    Directorate General of Community Health

1.    Construction of a training center in East Java for the use of
radio communication in health management and referrals.

2.    Provision of instructional materials, equipment, furniture and
vehicles.

3.    Provision of technical assistance for Project implementation,
and development and evaluation of safe motherhood, child health and
nutrition programs.

4.    Carrying out of workshops on Project management, use of radio
communications, quality assurance systems, and technical aspects of
community health and nutrition programs.

5.    Carrying out of studies on: community health and nutrition
services; role of health centers, health sub-centers and community
service posts; referral systems; and need assessments of health
service providers.

6.    Provision of local and overseas fellowships in nursing,
midwifery, public health, and nutrition disciplines.

7.    Provision of local and overseas fellowships and training in
support of longitudinal surveillance for provincial and Kabupaten
health staff and faculty members of the Schools of Public Health;
provision of technical assistance for the development of
longitudinal surveillance sites; and provision of related equipment
and vehicles to longitudinal surveillance sites.

II.   Center for Health Education

1.    Provision of instructional materials, equipment and vehicles.

2.    Carrying out of workshops in Project planning, adaptation of
media packages, and training methods.

3.    Provision of technical assistance for design, preparation and
production of media packages, and for evaluative research.

4.    Provision of local and overseas fellowships in health and
nutrition education.

III.  Center for Health Information

1.    Provision of equipment, materials and vehicles.

2.    Provision of technical assistance in system simplification,
design and development, and carrying out of related workshops and
training.

3.    Provision of local and overseas fellowships in biostatistics,
epidemiology, research methods, and information systems design.

Part C: Central Manpower Support

      Strengthening the quality and relevance of the research and
training activities at the following higher education institutions:
the Schools of Public Health (Universitas Dipenogoro, Universitas
Erlangga, Universitas Indonesia and Universitas Hasanudin), the
Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel, the Center
for Education of Health Manpower (including Academy Gizi), and the
Center for Community Nutrition and Family Resources at the Institute
of Agriculture at Bogor, including:

1.    Provision of local and overseas fellowships, field training
and internships in public health and nutrition for faculty members
and research staff.

2.    Provision of technical assistance for the strengthening of
multi-stream training programs in Irian Jaya and Nusa Tenggara
Timur, and for the strengthening of the safe motherhood, child
health and nutrition program content in such institutions.

3.    Construction and rehabilitation of facilities and training
centers and provision of instructional materials, equipment and
furniture.

4.    Carrying out of health manpower policy studies relating to:
the role and function of doctors on contract, deployment of village
midwives, evaluation of health staff career paths, Kabupaten health
managers, and health center managers.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

September 15, 1998                         1,725,000
March 15, 1999                             1,790,000
September 15, 1999                         1,855,000
March 15, 2000                             1,930,000
September 15, 2000                         2,000,000
March 15, 2001                             2,075,000
September 15, 2001                         2,155,000
March 15, 2002                             2,240,000
September 15, 2002                         2,325,000
March 15, 2003                             2,410,000
September 15, 2003                         2,505,000
March 15, 2004                             2,600,000
September 15, 2004                         2,695,000
March 15, 2005                             2,800,000
September 15, 2005                         2,905,000
March 15, 2006                             3,015,000
September 15, 2006                         3,130,000
March 15, 2007                             3,250,000
September 15, 2007                         3,375,000
March 15, 2008                             3,500,000
September 15, 2008                         3,635,000
March 15, 2009                             3,770,000
September 15, 2009                         3,915,000
March 15, 2010                             4,065,000
September 15, 2010                         4,220,000
March 15, 2011                             4,380,000
September 15, 2011                         4,545,000
March 15, 2012                             4,720,000
September 15, 2012                         4,895,000
March 15, 2013                             5,075,000

_____________________________

*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years

      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and medical
supplies shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

3.    Civil works in remote areas estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
$500,000 equivalent, may be procured through direct contracting, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Equipment and medical supplies estimated to cost less than
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    Equipment and medical supplies estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least

three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

6.    Instructional materials and printing services may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

7.    Instructional materials which are readily available in printed
form, such as standard medical forms, books and teaching materials,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, or
may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the  Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project:

      (a)   a Project Director, who shall be the Director General of
Community Health of MOH, and shall be responsible for overall
Project implementation; and

      (b)   a Project Manager, who shall be responsible for the day-

to-day implementation of the Project, including technical and
administrative aspects.

2.    To facilitate inter-program consultation and coordination in
Project implementation and monitoring, the Borrower shall maintain
within MOH, until completion of the Project, the Project Steering
Committee, chaired by the Project Manager, and including
representatives of BAPPENAS and of the following offices of MOH: the
Directorate General of Communicable Disease Control and
Environmental Health, the Secretariat General, the Directorate
General of Medical Services, the Directorate General of Food and
Drug, and the National Institute of Health Research and Development.

3.    To coordinate the various activities under the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain within MOH, until completion of the Project,
the Project Secretariat with qualified staff in adequate numbers,
including an Executive Secretary, a Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer, a Finance Officer, and a Procurement Officer.

4.    To provide advice on planning, development and implementation
of the various activities under the Project, the Borrower shall, by
July 31, 1993, establish and thereafter maintain within MOH, until
completion of the Project, a Management Advisory Group with
qualified staff in adequate numbers, including a Community Health
Advisor and a Project Implementation Specialist, acceptable to the
Bank.

5.    The Borrower shall, by July 31, 1993, furnish to the Bank a
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the monitoring and evaluation of
the Project, including:

      (a)   the methodology for the application of the Borrower’s
National Economic and Social Survey in the evaluation of Project;
and

      (b)   the procedures for ensuring the effective monitoring and
evaluation of the realization of the benefits of the Project in
regard to Indigenous People in the Project Provinces.

6.    The Borrower shall, by April 15 of the Fiscal Year in which
Project activities commence in a Kabupaten, commencing April 15,
1994, strengthen the planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity of
such Kabupaten, including, if required, appointing a qualified
monitoring and evaluation officer to the Kabupaten Health Office.

7.    The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, for its approval, procedures and timetables for
establishing annual research program priorities under the Project,
and, thereafter, carry out such research programs in accordance with
the approved procedures and timetables.

8.    By September 15 of each year, commencing on September 15,
1994, the Borrower shall, or shall cause the provincial planning
units of the Project Provinces to, prepare and furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comments, annual implementation Project progress
reports, such progress reports to be prepared in consultation with
the Project Secretariat.

9.    The Borrower shall cause each Project Province and Kabupaten
to prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,  by
September 15 in each year, commencing on September 15, 1993, annual
detailed plans for implementation of Project activities, such plans
to include:

      (a)   if relevant, innovative activities for improvement of
the quality and effectiveness of community health and nutrition
programs, including evaluation criteria for such innovative
activities;

      (b)   the recommendations, agreed by the Borrower and the
Bank, of anthropological and ethnographic studies carried out in the
Project Provinces inhabited by Indigenous People; and

      (c)   measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that
governmental agencies and non-governmental organizations engaged in
the delivery of community health and nutrition services to
Indigenous People take into full consideration the preferences of
Indigenous People beneficiaries of the Project identified through
the Borrower’s existing consultation mechanisms as set forth in
Minister of Home Affairs Decree No. 9 of 1982 relating to guidance
for planning, evaluation and monitoring of development programs at
the local level.

10.   In carrying out Part B.III.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall, before proceeding with the procurement of equipment, cause
the Center for Health Information within MOH to carry out and
furnish to the Bank a feasibility study on employing sample
registration techniques at the Kabupaten and health center levels to
measure health outcome; to review and revise as necessary the Health
Center Reporting Forms (SP2TP); and to design and test a manual form
of the new reporting system.

11.   The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by September 15, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank
for its approval a plan for carrying out a mid-term Project review;

      (b)   by June 15, 1996, carry out, in consultation with the
Bank, a mid-term Project review pursuant to such approved plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, promptly take all such actions recommended
as a result of such mid-term review and which are required to
achieve the objectives of the Project.

12.   The Borrower undertakes to acquire the boats and vehicles
required for Project implementation in accordance with the schedule
and timetable agreed with the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the

Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding specialcommitment entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

