d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3651 JO

                          Loan Agreement

                  (Energy Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                    HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated November 24, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3651 JO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 24, 1993, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated August 16,
1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s energy sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution; and

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as hereinafter
provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.";

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "MEMR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources;

      (d)   "NRA" means the Natural Resources Authority of the
Borrower, operating under the general supervision of MEMR;

      (e)   "Power Entities" means the Borrower’s entities for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electric power, namely,
the Jordan Electricity Authority, the Jordan Electric Power Company
and the Irbid District Electricity Company;

      (f)   "LRMC" means the long-run marginal cost for the supply
of electric power, calculated in accordance with a methodology
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (g)   "Power Sub-sector Plan" means the plan of action
described in the Program for restructuring of the power sub-sector
and its regulatory framework;

      (h)   "Intermediate Financial Targets" means the intermediate
financial targets set forth in the Program for the Power Entities,
namely, the achievement by each Power Entity of a debt service
coverage ratio of 1.25 and of a self-financing ratio of 20%, all
calculated in accordance with a methodology agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank;

      (i)   "Ultimate Financial Targets" means the ultimate
financial targets set forth in the Program for the Power Entities,
namely, the achievement by each Power Entity of a debt-service
coverage ratio of 1.5 and of a self-financing ratio of 35%, all
calculated in accordance with a methodology agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank;

      (j)   "MEMR Reorganization Plan" means the plan described in
the Program to strengthen the capacity of MEMR in the setting of
policy and the coordination of energy development activities;

      (k)   "Environmental Regulations" means the regulations for
water and air pollution to be adopted in accordance with the
Program;

      (l)   "Environmental Institutions" mean the following
institutions referred to in the Program: (i) the National
Environmental Agency, to be designated by the Borrower to assume
responsibility for the application and enforcement of environmental
standards at the national level; and (ii) the Environmental Unit to
be established within MEMR to assume the technical responsibility
for formulation of environmental standards for the energy sector and
for ensuring adherence thereto; and

      (m)   "Petro Jordan" means the Petro Jordan Company to be
established by the Borrower to assume the functions of NRA in the
areas of oil and gas exploration and development.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank of
Jordan with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Loan and for the collection of the documents
and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
                  ciples consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                            ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINISTRY OF               21319 JO
                    PLANNING
                  Amman

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                  By /s/ Fayez Al-Tarawneh
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures on account of payments for petroleum
products exceeding $16,000,000 equivalent;

      (b)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      112               -           Alcoholic beverages

      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse

      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)

      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials

      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked

      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      728.43      -                 Tobacco processing machinery

      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                    wares (including set gems)

      971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)

      (c)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (d)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $16,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1993;

      (e)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;

      (f)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (g)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 shall be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    Expenditures for services to be financed from the proceeds of
the Loan shall be limited to an amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,500,000, on account of consultants’ services which shall be
required, in the judgment of the Borrower and with the agreement of
the Bank, to assist the Borrower in the preparation of the Power
Sub-sector Plan, energy conservation, the MEMR Reorganization Plan
and the Environmental Regulations.

5.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of $40,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program, and (ii) that the actions described in Part A of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.

      (b)   If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph
(a) above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

6.    (a)   No withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have
reached the equivalent of $60,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program, and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.

      (b)   If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph
(a) above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

May 1, 1999                                     1,495,000
November 1, 1999                                1,550,000
May 1, 2000                                     1,610,000
November 1, 2000                                1,670,000
May 1, 2001                                     1,730,000
November 1, 2001                                1,795,000
May 1, 2002                                     1,860,000
November 1, 2002                                1,930,000
May 1, 2003                                     2,000,000
November 1, 2003                                2,075,000

May 1, 2004                                     2,155,000
November 1, 2004                                2,235,000
May 1, 2005                                     2,315,000
November 1, 2005                                2,405,000
May 1, 2006                                     2,490,000
November 1, 2006                                2,585,000
May 1, 2007                                     2,680,000
November 1, 2007                                2,780,000
May 1, 2008                                     2,885,000
November 1, 2008                                2,990,000
May 1, 2009                                     3,100,000
November 1, 2009                                3,215,000
May 1, 2010                                     3,335,000
November 1, 2010                                3,460,000
May 1, 2011                                     3,590,000
November 1, 2011                                3,725,000
May 1, 2012                                     3,860,000
November 1, 2012                                4,005,000
May 1, 2013                                     4,155,000
November 1, 2013                                4,320,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. Where payments
under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account, such copies together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and

3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where payments
under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account, the documentation and the information to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

7.    Any consultants to be employed by the Borrower to assist in
the carrying out of the Program under contracts to be financed from
the proceeds of the Loan shall have such qualifications and
experience and shall be employed under such terms of reference as
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 4

          A. Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (a) (ii)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
economic policies stated in the Program, including adequate
arrangements for external financing.

2.    (a)   Adjustment of power tariffs so as (i) to ensure their
full coverage of LRMC, and (ii) to enable the Power Entities to
achieve the Intermediate Financial Targets.

      (b)   Adjustment of the prices of individual petroleum
products so as to represent economic prices, as calculated on the
basis of import parity formulae agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank.

      (c)   Maintenance of natural gas prices at 85% of the price of
its fuel oil equivalent.

3.    Adoption of the Power Sub-sector Plan and the MEMR
Reorganization Plan.

4.    Establishment and start of operation of Petro Jordan and the
adoption of an action plan for reorganization of NRA.

5.    Designation, under appropriate operational procedures, of the
National Environmental Agency and achievement of satisfactory
progress in the preparation of the Environmental Regulations for the
energy sector.

6.    Implementation of measures, indicated in the action plan
referred to in the Program, to improve energy conservation.

          B. Actions Referred to in Paragraph 6 (a) (ii)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
economic policies stated in the Program, including adequate
arrangements for external financing.

2.    (a)   Adjustment of power tariffs so as (i) to ensure their
full coverage of LRMC, and (ii) to enable the Power Entities to
achieve the Ultimate Financial Targets.

      (b)   Maintenance of the prices of individual petroleum
products at a level representing their economic prices, as
calculated on the basis of import parity formulae agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.

      (c)   Maintenance of natural gas prices at 85% of the price of
its fuel oil equivalent.

3.    Achievement of satisfactory progress in the implementation of
(a) the Power Sub-sector Plan, (b) the MEMR Reorganization Plan; (c)
the Environmental Regulations for the energy sector; and (d) the
reorganization of NRA.

4.    Continued implementation of measures included in the action
plan referred to in the Program, to improve energy conservation.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan

Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

