d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                CONFORMED COPY

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3607-0 PH

           (Second Irrigation Operations Support Project)

                               between

                     REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                 and

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated June 9, 1993

                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3607-0 PH

                           LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                              ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
                  under which any further withdrawals under the
                  Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
                  of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
                  Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "DA" means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture;

      (b)   "IMIS" means the Irrigation Management Information System
established and monitored by NIA;

      (c)   "Irrigators’ Association" means an association of farmers
in an irrigation system, registered in accordance with Presidential
Decrees No. 681 and 1595 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (d)   "ISF" means the Irrigation Service Fee charged by NIA on
irrigated lands within Irrigation Systems at a rate approved by the
Borrower;

      (e)   "Irrigation System" means an irrigation system constructed
by, and the property of, NIA and eligible for inclusion under the
Project;

      (f)   "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, a
government-owned and controlled corporation established by the Republic
Act No. 3601 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
and

      (g)   "Peso" means a unit of the currency of the Borrower.

                             ARTICLE II

                              The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty-one million three hundred thousand dollars
($51,300,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such with-
drawal.

      Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum

on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified
                  in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                  of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                  (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise
                  than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
            cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
            time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the prece-
            ding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
            On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
            Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
            Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such
            Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE III

                      Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the

objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project
through  NIA and Part D of the Project through DA with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, adminis-
trative, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE IV

                         Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause NIA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause NIA to:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall or shall cause NIA to:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted dur-
                  ing such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related withdraw-

                  als.

                              ARTICLE V

                           Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause NIA:

      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice;

      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agri-
cultural practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and

      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machi-
nery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and agricultural practices.

                             ARTICLE VI

                             Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE VII

              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Republic of the Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  SECFIN                        7550 CBP-PH
                  Manila                        40268 CB-CONF

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                                                82987 (FTCC),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly

authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                              REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                  /s/ Franklin M. Ebdalin
                              By
                                  Authorized Representative

                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                                    /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                              By
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                             SCHEDULE 1

               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated              % of
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
                               U. S. Dollar              to be
      Category                 Equivalent)              Financed

1.    Works                    33,500,000             93%

2.    Equipment                 4,100,000             100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost) and
                                                      80% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally

3.    Technical assist-         4,300,000             100%
      ance and training

4.    Incremental operat-       9,400,000             80% from January
      ing and maintenance                             1, 1993 through
      costs under Part B of                           December 31, 1994;
      the Project                                     50% from January
                                                      1, 1995 through
                                                      December 31, 1995;
                                                      and 20% from
                                                      January 1, 1996
                                                      and thereafter

      TOTAL                    51,300,000
                              èèèèèèèèèèè

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "incremental operating and maintenance costs" means
costs incurred for works, services, supplies, travel and staff salaries
required under Part B of the Project as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank; and

      (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be made
in respect of Category 4 on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1993.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                     Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
achieve sustainable improvement in the operational efficiency of
Irrigation Systems thereby increasing agricultural production, small
farmer incomes and rural employment opportunities.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Improvement of Irrigation Systems

1.    Improvement of about 18 Irrigation Systems including desilting,
reshaping of canals, repair of damaged canals and structures and
installation of steel gates.

2.    Repair of about 22 river diversion structures in about 14 flood-
damaged Irrigation Systems.

3.    Erosion control mainly through the use of vegetative materials
and the establishment of nurseries for the supply of planting materials.

4.    Construction, on a pilot basis, of about three silt excluders in
Irrigation Systems subject to heavy siltation and construction of
improved water control structures.

Part B:     Operation and Maintenance Improvement

1.    The carrying out of a program to  improve and enhance the  opera-
tions and maintenance of Irrigation Systems, including incremental
activities such as maintenance of canals, service roads, control gates
and structures; increased participation of Irrigators’ Associations in
the operations and maintenance of Irrigation Systems; and improvement
of ISF collection.

2.    Formulation and implementation of system operation plans.

Part C:     Institutional Strengthening and Development

1.    Strengthening of existing Irrigators’ Associations by provision
of additional training and by membership expansion; establishment of
new Irrigators’ Associations; and provision of financial and management
training for Irrigators’ Associations.
2.    Strengthening of NIA’s capability for ISF collection, inter alia,
by involving Irrigators’ Associations  in ISF collection; updating map-

ping of irrigated areas and field registers and computerizing the bill-
ing process; staff training in operations and maintenance of Irrigation
Systems, appropriate engineering design techniques, and administrative
and financial management; and the provision of support for the IMIS.

3.    The carrying out of studies on hydrology, siltation, improved
water control and mechanical equipment and workshop management to
strengthen NIA.

4.    Provision of equipment and materials to NIA.

Part D:     Agricultural Support Services

      Provision of agricultural support services including verification
trials, demonstration plots, seed production and farmer training.

                      *          *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                             SCHEDULE 3

                        Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      February 1, 1999                       960,000.00
      August 1, 1999                         995,000.00
      February 1, 2000                     1,030,000.00
      August 1, 2000                       1,070,000.00
      February 1, 2001                     1,110,000.00
      August 1, 2001                       1,150,000.00
      February 1, 2002                     1,195,000.00
      August 1, 2002                       1,240,000.00
      February 1, 2003                     1,285,000.00
      August 1, 2003                       1,330,000.00
      February 1, 2004                     1,380,000.00
      August 1, 2004                       1,435,000.00
      February 1, 2005                     1,485,000.00
      August 1, 2005                       1,540,000.00
      February 1, 2006                     1,600,000.00
      August 1, 2006                       1,660,000.00
      February 1, 2007                     1,720,000.00
      August 1, 2007                       1,785,000.00
      February 2008                        1,850,000.00
      August 1, 2008                       1,920,000.00
      February 1, 2009                     1,990,000.00
      August 1, 2009                       2,065,000.00
      February 1, 2010                     2,140,000.00
      August 1, 2010                       2,220,000.00
      February 1, 2011                     2,300,000.00
      August 1, 2011                       2,385,000.00
      February 2012                        2,475,000.00
      August 1, 2012                       2,570,000.00
      February 1, 2013                     2,665,000.00
      August 1, 2013                       2,750,000.00

_________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                       Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to
be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time
of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity

                             SCHEDULE 4

                Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful
bidder’s bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two pre-
disclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in The Republic of the
Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Packages of workshop, agricultural or office equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in

accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Civil works for irrigation system improvements and repair works
under Part A of the Project and for operation and maintenance works
under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $600,000
or more per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Civil works for irrigation system improvements and repair works
under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $600,000 equiva-
lent per task, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $21,600,000, may
be carried out under force account.

4.    Civil works for operation and maintenance works under Part B of
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more per
task but less than $600,000 equivalent per task, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $12,300,000, may be carried out under force
account.

5.    Civil works for operation and maintenance works under Part B of
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per
task, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,200,000, may be carried
out through piece-work.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized with-
drawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consul-
tant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. How-
ever, this exception to Bank prior review shall not apply to the terms
of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals,
to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature
as reasonably determined by the Bank and to the amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.

                             SCHEDULE 5

                       Implementation Program

      The Borrower shall cause NIA to:

1.    With respect to Irrigation Systems to be improved under the
Project:

      (a)   select Irrigation Systems on the basis of criteria satisfac-
tory to the Bank, covering technical aspects, such as adequacy of water
and completeness of hydrologic data; institutional aspects, such as
presence of an effective Irrigator’s Association with commitment to
carry out repairs and improvements and assume responsibility for opera-
tion and maintenance of improved sections of the relevant Irrigation
System; and economic aspects, such as for each Irrigation System an
economic rate of return of not less than ten percent;

      (b)   prepare, in respect of each selected Irrigation System, a
detailed operation plan and improvement plan in consultation and
agreement with the beneficiaries of such selected Irrigation System;

      (c)   submit, by June 30 in each year, to the Bank for review and
comment a detailed work program (based on the improvement plans referred
to in sub-paragraph (b) above) together with the operation plans for
each selected Irrigation System to be improved during the following
twelve months; and

      (d)   implement, taking into account the Bank’s comments and
recommendations thereon, each work program referred to in sub-paragraph
(c) above, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    In each year make adequate provision, in NIA’s operating budget,
for retirement and/or severance benefits (as appropriate) for ditch-
tenders whose employment would cease during the following twelve months
and ensure that such benefits are made available to eligible ditch-
tenders in accordance with the Borrower’s laws, rules and regulations
as the same may be amended from time to time.

3.    Furnish to the Bank, for review and comment, the proposed criteria
for its incentive scheme, taking into account the objective of improved
operation and maintenance of Irrigation Systems, and shall take into
account the Bank’s comments thereon.

4.    By December 31, 1993 furnish to the Bank a report on all Irriga-
tion Systems where actual ISF collection was below 60% of the amounts
billed in 1992 providing details of the problems faced in collection
and actions recommended to resolve such problems.

5.    By October 31, 1993, submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, a review of the existing monitoring system in respect of
Irrigation Systems and a proposal for a modified IMIS, together with
a comparison of the two, and shall take into account the Bank’s comments
and recommendations thereon.

6.    By June 30 in each year, furnish to the Bank for review and
concurrence a projection of the operation and maintenance cash flow for
all Irrigation Systems, for a minimum of the next five years and showing
actual operation and maintenance cash flow for the preceding five years.

7.    Maintain the annual level of operating and maintenance services
provided to Irrigation Systems in each fiscal year at no less than the
1992 level of the same.

8.    Establish quality control units at its headquarters and in each
regional office to ensure the quality of NIA’s construction and opera-
tion and maintenance work.

9.    Implement control measures (including close verification of
individual works under implementation  and disbursement of funds for
completed works) to ensure that regional offices do not exceed expendi-
ture budgets in implementing improvement of Irrigation Systems, without
prior approval.

10.   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, by no later than September 30 and March
31 in  each year, furnish to the Bank a semi-annual report on the pro-
gress of the Project, including findings of the quality control units
referred to in paragraph (8) above, data on ISF collection and an
assessment of the extent to which the Project has increased female
participation in Irrigator’s Associations, and in new income-generating
activities.

