d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3662 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

                 (National Rural Finance Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE

                      Dated December 13, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3662 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CAISSE NATIONALE
DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations, as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and

      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from other external
sources of funds (the Cofinanciers) (i) loans in an aggregate amount
equivalent to about $245,000,000 (two hundred forty-five million
dollars) and (ii) other funding in an aggregate amount equivalent to
about $34,000,000 (thirty-four million dollars) to assist in
financing part of the cost of the Project on the terms and

conditions to be set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Cofinanciers for the loans and between the Guarantor and the
Cofinanciers for the other funding; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                        General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Beneficiary", which includes rural women, means a
farmer, a household, a fisherman, an artisan or an enterprise to
which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (b)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of part of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Beneficiary for an Investment Project;

      (c)   "Investment Project" means any investment project under
Part A of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (d)   "CLCA" means any local branch of the Borrower;

      (e)   "Borrower’s Legislation" means the Guarantor’s Dahir No.
1-60-106 dated December 4, 1961, establishing the Borrower, as
amended by Law (Dahir portant Loi) No. 1-93-225 dated July 27, 1993
and the Decree (Decret) No. 2-61-607 dated December 4, 1961 issued
by the Guarantor, pursuant to which the Borrower is operating; Dahir
No. 1-59-271 dated April 14, 1960, Dahir No. 1-61-402 dated June 30,
1962, and the Decision (Arrete) dated November 16, 1984, of the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance, governing the Guarantor’s financial
control of the Borrower, and Law (Dahir portant Loi) No. 1-93-147
of July 6, 1993 on the organization and control of financial
institutions, as said Dahirs Laws, Decree and Decision may be
amended from time to time;

      (f)   "Statement of Development Policy" means the statement of
the Borrower’s medium-term development policy dated May 5, 1989, as
the same may be amended from time to time;

      (g)   "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines
regulating the provision of credit by the Borrower, dated June 1991,
as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (h)   "Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme" means the scheme
established by the Guarantor’s Minister of Finance, for the

protection of the Borrower against the risk of foreign exchange
losses as set forth in a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the
Bank dated October 14, 1993;

      (i)   "Dirham" and "DH" mean the currency of the Guarantor;

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (k)   "Bank al Maghrib" means the central bank of the
Guarantor, established and operating pursuant to the Guarantor’s
Laws (Dahir) No. 1-59-233 dated June 30, 1959, and No. 1-61-258
dated December 30, 1961, as the same may be amended from time to
time;

      (l)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing
on January 1 and ending on December 31; and

      (m)   "Climatic Risk Insurance Fund" means the system and the
program of actions to be established to cover losses incurred by
eligible farmers as a result of climatic conditions.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by
a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain a special deposit account in a currency and a financial
institution, both satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account would be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B and C
of the Project, in accordance with appropriate technical, financial,
economic and administrative practices; (ii) provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose; and (iii) conduct its operations and affairs with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial,
technical, agricultural and administrative standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with the

Borrower’s Legislation, the Statement of Development Policy and the
Credit Policy Guidelines.

      (b)   Part D of the Project shall be carried out by the
Guarantor.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part C
of the Project in accordance with the Action Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Without limitation on the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   make Sub-loans under Part A of the Project, in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (b)   appraise Investment Projects and supervise, monitor,
evaluate and report on, the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of
their respective Investment Projects, in accordance with policies
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (c)   exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part
C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. Without limitation on the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project;

      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30,
1996, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the conclusions and recommendations indicated
by the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph (c) of this Section, together with any actions proposed to
be taken to further the progress in the carrying out of the Project;
and

      (c)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said reports, and thereafter, promptly
take all action which the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
have agreed to be required on the Borrower’s part to further the
progress in the carrying out of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts (including without limitation, separate records and
accounts for the CLCAs) adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section 4.01, its
                   financial statements (balance sheets, statements
                   of income and expenses and related statements),
                   the records and accounts for the Special
                   Account, for each Fiscal Year audited in
                   accordance with sound auditing principles

                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with the provisions of
                   paragraph (a) of this Section 4.01, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   utilize all amounts received from Beneficiaries in
payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal
under, Sub-loans, to the extent they are not yet required to meet
the Borrower’s payment obligations to the Bank under this Agreement,
exclusively to finance the further development of the Guarantor’s
agricultural and rural sectors in accordance with the Borrower’s
Credit Policy Guidelines;

      (b)   maintain procedures satisfactory to the Bank to enable
the Borrower properly to monitor the Borrower’s utilization of the
amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and

      (c)   furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank may reasonably request concerning the
utilization of said amounts.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such actions
satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself
against the risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies used in its operations and the
Dirham.

      Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take such actions as
shall be necessary to maintain a prudent financial policy and a

satisfactory level of performance complying with a minimum standard
of capital adequacy, liquidity, and financial profitability as
measured on December 31 of each year with appropriate financial
ratios.

      (b)   the Borrower shall ensure as a minimum level that
weighted average of all rates at which interest and other fees on
loans made by the Borrower are charged during each Fiscal Year shall
be equal to at least the rate of change of inflation determined in
accordance with the Producer Price Index during such Fiscal Year.

      (c)   Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in this Section in respect of such year and the next following
Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review
upon its completion.

      (d)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet any of its requirements on financial performance, for the
Fiscal Year covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take
all measures as shall be necessary (including, without limitation,
adjustments to the structure or levels of its interest rates and
other financial charges) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section, the term "Producer
Price Index" means the Guarantor’s producer price index published in
the annual report of the Bank al Maghrib.

      Section 4.05. The provisions of Section 4.04 of the Loan
Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated July 21, 1989 for
a National Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 3088 MOR) are
hereby amended by the substitution therefor of the provisions of the
preceding Section 4.04 of this Agreement.

      Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 10 to 1.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than
                   eighteen months after the date on which it is
                   originally incurred.

           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date, and to the
                   extent, the amount of such debt has become
                   outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
                   or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                   agreement, on the date the agreement providing
                   for such guarantee has been entered into but
                   only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
                   outstanding.

          (iii)    The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
                   cover specific liabilities.

           (iv)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of

                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.07. The Borrower shall at all times apply policies
and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the allocation of
adequate amounts to provisions for losses on loans made by the
Borrower, in accordance with sound accounting and financial
practices.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Borrower’s Legislation or the Statement of
Development Policy or the Credit Policy Guidelines shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;

      (b)   the Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1994, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph (b)
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;

      (c)   (i)    subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph
                   (c):

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the Cofinancing or of any
                         other grant or loan made to or for the
                         benefit of the Borrower for the financing
                         of the Project shall have been suspended,
                         cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                         part, pursuant to the terms of the
                         agreement providing therefor; or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph (c) shall
                   not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that:

                   (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                         or prematuring is not caused by the
                         failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                         its obligations under such agreement; and

                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                         available to the Borrower from other
                         sources on terms and conditions consistent
                         with the obligations of the Borrower under
                         this Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower shall have failed to maintain its
participation in the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme in
accordance with the requirements thereof or the Guarantor shall have
failed to maintain the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (d) of
Section 5.01 shall occur; and

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
            2-4 rue d’Alger
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   CREDIAGRICOLE                   31657M
                   Rabat, Morocco                  32956M

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of
the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                         CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE

                         By /s/ Rachid Haddaoui
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans under
    Part A (1) of
    the Project for:

(2) Sub-loans under
    Part A (2) of
    the Project:

    (a)  greenhouses          10,000,000        75% of amounts
                                                paid by the
                                                Borrower

    (b)  other                45,000,000        40% of amounts
         investments                            paid by the
                                                Borrower

    (a)  agro-industry        15,000,000        50% of amounts
                                                paid by the
                                                Borrower

    (b)  other                10,000,000        50% of amounts
         investments                            paid by the
                                                Borrower

(3) Sub-loans under           10,000,000        35% of amounts
    Part A (3) of                               paid by the
    the Project                                 Borrower

(4) Sub-loans under            5,000,000        30% of amounts
    Part A (4) of                               paid by the
    the Project                                 Borrower

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Sub-loans under            4,000,000        50% of amounts
    Part A (5) of                               paid by the
    the Project                                 Borrower

(6) Goods for                    500,000        100% of foreign
    Part C of                                   expenditures and
    the Project                                 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(7) Consultants’                 500,000        100%
    services,
    training and
    fellowships for
    Part C of
    the Project
                             ___________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1993.

4.    The Bank may require that withdrawals from the Loan Account be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures
and under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (1) assist the Borrower
in the financing of such productive facilities and resources as will
contribute to the development, inter alia, of the Guarantor’s
agricultural, agro-processing, rural and fishing sectors; and (2)
strengthen the Guarantor’s rural financing system, including the
operations and institutional capabilities of the Borrower.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Sub-loans

      The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans, to:

(1)   farmers and enterprises, of on-farm and forestry investments;

(2)   agro-processing enterprises, of investment projects to
construct and equip processing, packing and storage facilities for
agro-industrial, agricultural, forestry and livestock products, to
expand, upgrade and rehabilitate the product mix of such facilities
and to strengthen the operations of said enterprises;

(3)   rural households, of investment projects to construct
dwellings for such households;

(4)   fishermen, of investment projects to acquire fishing boats and
to equip, repair and upgrade fishing boats so as to improve the
operations of coastal fisheries; and

(5)   artisans and enterprises, of investment projects to: (a)
develop, upgrade and expand the production of artisanal goods and
the provision of commercial services required for the proper
development of the rural sector; and (b) upgrade the environment of
the rural sector.

Part B:     Land Consolidation Credit

      The operation of a credit facility to finance the purchase by
farmers of land for agricultural production.

Part C:     Borrower’s Institutional Development

      The carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of the Borrower, including the provision
of training and the provision of software, the maintenance of
computer equipment and the provision of small pedagogical and other
small equipment.

Part D:     Climatic Risk Management

      The establishment of a Climatic Risk Insurance Fund, to put
into operation a suitable nationwide climatic risk management
insurance scheme.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1999                              1,870,000
September 15, 1999                          1,940,000
March 15, 2000                              2,010,000
September 15, 2000                          2,085,000
March 15, 2001                              2,165,000
September 15, 2001                          2,245,000
March 15, 2002                              2,325,000
September 15, 2002                          2,415,000
March 15, 2003                              2,505,000
September 15, 2003                          2,595,000
March 15, 2004                              2,695,000
September 15, 2004                          2,795,000
March 15, 2005                              2,895,000
September 15, 2005                          3,005,000
March 15, 2006                              3,115,000
September 15, 2006                          3,230,000
March 15, 2007                              3,350,000
September 15, 2007                          3,475,000
March 15, 2008                              3,605,000
September 15, 2008                          3,740,000
March 15, 2009                              3,880,000
September 15, 2009                          4,020,000
March 15, 2010                              4,170,000
September 15, 2010                          4,325,000
March 15, 2011                              4,485,000
September 15, 2011                          4,655,000
March 15, 2012                              4,825,000
September 15, 2012                          5,005,000
March 15, 2013                              5,190,000
September 15, 2013                          5,385,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Action Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.

      In order to carry out the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   develop and introduce an executive decision making
information and management control system which the Bank agrees is
designed to assist the Borrower in carrying out its strategic
objectives, its long-term corporate development plan, and its annual
business plan, and ensure that said system shall be fully
operational starting June 30, 1994;

      (b)   develop and introduce, not later than January 1, 1995,
a management information system, including a banking accounting
system, designed to improve the quality and efficiency of the
Borrower’s services and further the competition of its products, and
ensure that said systems shall be fully operational not later than
January 1, 1997;

      (c)   introduce a regional structure designed to strengthen
the Borrower’s institutional capabilities as a multi-purpose finance
institution and ensure that said structure shall be operational not
later than September 30, 1997;

      (d)   develop a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to
diversify its services, and ensure that said program shall be
implemented starting January 1, 1996; and

      (e)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than October
31 in each Fiscal Year, a proposed training program, including,
without limitation, training in environmental impact assessments for
staff of the agro-processing units of the Borrower’s regional
branches, which it proposes to carry out during the next following
Fiscal Year; and thereafter, carry out such training program for
said next Fiscal Year as shall have been agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                Criteria, Procedures and Principal
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

      Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the
criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth in this
Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement.

1.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only:

      (a)   to a Beneficiary which shall have established its
creditworthiness to the satisfaction of the Borrower in accordance
with the Credit Policy Guidelines; and

      (b)   for an Investment Project which (i) is determined to be
technically, economically, financially and commercially feasible
including, on the basis, inter alia, of the existence of markets for
its output and (ii) in the case of an Investment Project to be
carried out under Part A (2) of the Project, is designed in
accordance with appropriate safety, health and environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank, all as shall be determined on
the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with the Credit
Policy Guidelines.

2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term
"free-limit Sub-loan" shall mean: (i) any Sub-loan for an Investment
Project under Part A (1), A (3), or A (5) of the Project, regardless
of the amount thereof; and (ii) any Sub-loan for an Investment
Project under Part A (2) or A (4) of the Project in an amount not
exceeding the sum of DH20,000,000 equivalent, when added to any
other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan which have been or are being used for
financing goods and services for such Investment Project, the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Bank.

3.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and the appraisal of the
Investment Project and a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

4.    Sub-loans shall be made on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Credit Policy Guidelines and on the following principal terms
and conditions. The Borrower shall obtain, by written contract or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, where applicable:

      (a)   that each Beneficiary shall undertake to: (i) carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate safety, health and environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank, and with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and practices, provide promptly,
as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for

the purposes and maintain adequate records; (ii) procure the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goodsand availability 
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them, and use such goods and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
enable the Bank and the Borrower to inspect such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including without
limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; and (v) prepare
and promptly furnish to the Borrower, for forwarding to the Bank if
so requested by the Bank, all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project;

      (b)   provisions to ensure that no expenditures for pesticides
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan;
and

      (c)   provisions to ensure the right of the Borrower to
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform
its obligations under its agreement providing for the Sub-loan.

                          SCHEDULE 6

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

      Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall

not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of free limit Sub-loans may be made
out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such
expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only
if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said

documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

