d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3544 IN

                          Loan Agreement

             (Renewable Resources Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

              TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT AND PAPERS LIMITED

                        Dated March 5, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3544 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT
AND PAPERS LIMITED (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan;

      (C)   the Guarantor has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
financing towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Association (the
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to eighty one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 81,600,000) (the Credit);

      (D)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
acting as Trustee (the Trustee) of the Global Environment Trust Fund
(GET) and Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited (IREDA)
(the GET Grant Agreement), the Bank as Trustee, has agreed to make
a grant (the GET Grant), to IREDA (as such the Recipient) in an
amount equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GET Grant
Agreement;

      (E)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and IREDA (the Project Agreement), IREDA has agreed to
carry out Part B of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "IREDA" means the Indian Renewable Energy Development
Agency Limited, a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956
of the Guarantor;

      (b)   "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State of
India, and includes any successor thereto;

      (c)   "Existing Liens" means the liens referred to in Schedule
5 to this Agreement; and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy five million dollars ($75,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and

services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in State Bank
of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each

            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
            semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part
A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall implement the Environment
Management Plan as agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and administrative practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1993, enter
into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the
supply of an additional 240,000 tons per annum of bagasse, thereby
bringing the total annual supply of bagasse to 700,000 tons.

      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, resettle
the families displaced from village Kurukkapalayam due to the on-
going operations of the Borrower on a new site in accordance with
the Action Plan as agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
                  from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
                  expenditure, the Borrower shall:

practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for the Special Account for
                  each financial year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than 6 months after the end of
                  each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the financial
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each financial year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3
times the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in
such year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be
incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a

                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations including administration,
                        adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                        depreciation, other non-cash operating
                        charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.

          (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                  months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                  question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                  accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                  notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                  provided that no event has occurred since such
                  notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material
                  adverse effect on the financial condition or
                  future operating results of the Borrower.

          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, before declaring any
dividend or make any other distribution with respect to its share
capital, prior to the commissioning of the expansion of the plant
under Part A of the Project, undertake to take a review of the
Borrower’s financial performance with the Bank.

      Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take steps to bring Tamil
Nadu’s share holding in the Borrower to a level of not more than 26%
by one year after the commissioning of the plant under Part A of the
Project.

      Section 5.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by
December 31 each year the financial statements showing the estimates
for the current year and projections for the following five years.

      Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and to the priorities
existing on charges created to the date of this Agreement, create in
favor of the Bank an equitable mortgage/charge in such form as the
Bank may reasonably require to constitute by way of security for the
Loan:

            (i)   a first specific charge upon all of its immovable
                  assets together with all rights and interests
                  appertaining to or necessary for said assets to
                  which the Borrower is now or may hereafter become
                  beneficially entitled, such mortgage to rank in
                  point of security equally and ratably with
                  mortgages/charges upon the said assets in respect
                  of Existing Liens but prior to any other lien
                  upon the assets of the Borrower, now existing or
                  hereafter created; and

            (ii)  a first specific charge upon all movable assets
                  of the Borrower, now existing or subsequently
                  added thereto, together with all rights and
                  interests appertaining to or necessary for said
                  assets to which the Borrower is now or may
                  hereafter become beneficially entitled such
                  charge to rank in point of security equally and
                  ratably with the Existing Liens upon the said
                  assets but prior to any other liens upon such
                  assets, now existing or hereafter created.

      (b)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.03 (b) of the
General Conditions, it is agreed that the Borrower may:

            (i)   (A)   create liens, ranking in point of security
                        equally and ratably the first specific
                        charge referred to in sub-section (a) (i)
                        of this Section, upon all the assets
                        mentioned in said sub-section together with
                        all rights and interests appertaining to or
                        necessary for said assets to which the
                        Borrower is now or may hereafter become
                        beneficially entitled; and

                  (B)   create liens, ranking in point of security
                        equally and ratably with the first
                        specific/floating charge referred to in
                        sub-section (a) (ii) of this Section, upon
                        all or any assets of the Borrower referred
                        to in said sub-section;

                  for securing debts or borrowings up to an
                  aggregate under sub-paragraphs (A) and (B) of
                  this paragraph, of Rupees 6,000 million or such
                  other amount acceptable to the Bank for the
                  purposes of financing or refinancing capital
                  investments including the investments required
                  for the Project; and

            (ii)  create liens, including hypothecations, ranking
                  in priority to the security provided for in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section on current assets
                  (stores, spare parts and fuel, including coal)
                  securing debts or borrowings maturing not more
                  than one year (at a time) from their respective
                  dates and incurred to bankers in the ordinary
                  course of business, in an amount not exceeding in
                  the aggregate at any one time Rupees 1,800
                  million or such other amount acceptable to the
                  Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower undertakes that no subsidiary (if any) of
the Borrower shall at any time without the consent of the Bank
create any lien on its undertakings or assets (including uncalled
capital) or any part thereof otherwise than in favor of the Borrower
and that all liens created by any subsidiary of the Borrower in
favor of the Borrower shall be retained by the Borrower and shall
not be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of by it and that it
will not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any shares for the
time being held by it in any subsidiary.

      (d)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   take all necessary steps and shall require all
                  other necessary parties to take all necessary
                  steps to ensure that all liens, including the
                  Existing Liens, outstanding upon the assets and
                  all liens upon such assets to be created under
                  this Section 5.06 shall be discharged or be
                  varied to the reasonable satisfaction of the Bank
                  so as to ensure that full effect may be given to
                  the foregoing provisions of this Section; and

            (ii)  obtain all necessary consents for the valid
                  creation of aforesaid security and shall duly
                  register or file, or cause to be duly registered
                  or filed, as necessary, such security in
                  accordance with the Companies Act, 1956 of the
                  Guarantor together with such other documents as
                  may be necessary or proper in order to render the
                  same fully effective in accordance with its
                  terms.

      (e)   The Borrower shall secure all necessary permissions from
the Government of Tamil Nadu to enable it to carry out its
obligations under this Section.

      (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Section, the Borrower shall, if required by the Bank, convert the
equitable mortgage to be created in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, into a legal mortgage in English form by way of a
Trust Deed in favor of such trustees and in such form as the Bank
may reasonably require to constitute by way of security for the Loan
substantially in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this
Section 5.06. To this end, the Borrower shall execute in favor of
the Bank an irrevocable power of attorney authorizing the Bank,
inter alia, to execute on behalf of the Borrower a legal mortgage in
English form as aforesaid.

      Section 5.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, if the
Borrower shall directly or indirectly pay or otherwise settle for a
consideration, before maturity, part or all of any outstanding
secured debt, the Borrower shall repay a proportionate part, or all,
as the case may be, of the Loan.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Borrower as
of the date of this Agreement shall have been amended without prior
consent of the Bank.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, any
event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   a valid security in favor of the Bank, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been created to secure the
Loan; and

      (b)   the power of attorney referred to in Section 5.06 (f) of
this Agreement has been executed.

      Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all action necessary or proper
in order to create a valid security in favor of the Bank, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken to secure the
Loan.

      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Chairman and Managing Director of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited
            16 Whites Road
            Madras 600014
            India

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  NEWSPRINT               041-8402
                  Madras

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia

                        TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT AND PAPERS LIMITED

                        By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Equipment,                75,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials and                             expenditures,
      supervisory                               100% of local
      services                                  expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                                 _________

            TOTAL               75,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$7,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after November 1, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                        Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)

September 1, 1998                            1,385,000
March 1, 1999                                1,435,000

September 1, 1999                            1,490,000
March 1, 2000                                1,545,000
September 1, 2000                            1,605,000
March 1, 2001                                1,665,000
September 1, 2001                            1,730,000
March 1, 2002                                1,795,000
September 1, 2002                            1,865,000
March 1, 2003                                1,935,000
September 1, 2003                            2,005,000
March 1, 2004                                2,085,000
September 1, 2004                            2,165,000
March 1, 2005                                2,245,000
September 1, 2005                            2,330,000
March 1, 2006                                2,420,000
September 1, 2006                            2,510,000
March 1, 2007                                2,605,000
September 1, 2007                            2,705,000
March 1, 2008                                2,810,000
September 1, 2008                            2,915,000
March 1, 2009                                3,025,000
September 1, 2009                            3,140,000
March 1, 2010                                3,260,000
September 1, 2010                            3,385,000
March 1, 2011                                3,510,000
September 1, 2011                            3,645,000
March 1, 2012                                3,785,000
September 1, 2012                            3,930,000
March 1, 2013                                4,075,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan

allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
                as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                shall have been shown by said documents and other
                evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories

shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                                  SCHEDULE 5

                                Existing Liens

                                                      Scheduled
      Name of the                   Amount of Loan     date of    Type of
      Institution                   (Rs. in crores)   Repayment   Mortgage

 1.   Industrial Development           109.57         01.01.1997  Equitable
      Bank of India

 2.   Industrial Finance                 8.00         01.01.1997      "
      Corporation of India

 3.   Industrial Credit &                8.00         20.12.1996      "
      Investment Corporation
      of India

 4.   State Bank of India                4.60         31.12.1996      "

 5.   Canara Bank                        3.90         31.12.1996      "

 6.   Indian Bank                        2.60         31.12.1996      "

 7.   State Bank of Patiala              2.60         31.12.1996      "

 8.   Syndicate Bank                     3.00         31.12.1996      "

 9.   Indian Overseas Bank               2.00         31.12.1996      "

10.   Andhra Bank                        1.70         31.12.1996      "

11.   Oriental Bank of                   1.30         31.12.1996      "
      Commerce

