d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3619 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

     (Land Development Project for Low-Income Families - CIH)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

               REAL ESTATE AND HOTEL FINANCE COMPANY

                        Dated June 14, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3619 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REAL ESTATE AND HOTEL
FINANCE COMPANY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations, as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                        General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Charter" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
December 21, 1989, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investment policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower, dated
April 23, 1992, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Credit Policy Guidelines" means: (i) the Borrower’s
credit policy guidelines dated October 15, 1990, as amended to the
date of this Agreement; and (ii) the guidelines regulating the
setting of interest rates by financial institutions in the
Guarantor’s territory set forth or referred to in the Order (Arrcte)
dated January 13, 1992 issued by the Guarantor’s Minister of
Finance;

      (d)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower in part out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Beneficiary for an Investment Project;

      (e)   "Beneficiary" means a Private Enterprise engaged in the
business of housing or land development, to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (f)   "Private Enterprise" means any (i) individual
entrepreneur, (ii) partnership of individual entrepreneurs or (iii)
enterprise which is not a Public Enterprise;

      (g)   "Public Enterprise" means any enterprise of which 50% or
more of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Guarantor or by any of its
administrative sub-divisions or agencies or by any Public
Enterprise;

      (h)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project under Part A of the Project to be carried out by a
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (i)   "Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme" means the scheme
established pursuant to the letter dated May 10, 1993 from the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, for the protection
of the Borrower against the risk of foreign exchange losses in
respect of the Loan; and

      (j)   "Dirham" and "DH" mean the currency of the Guarantor.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for: (a) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to

be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a
Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (b) for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined

            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial,
technical and administrative standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter, the
Statement of Policy and the Credit Policy Guidelines and shall
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries in accordance with the
criteria and procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (b)   exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and
the Borrower, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and
achieve the purposes of the Project; and

      (c)   supervise and monitor the carrying out by the
Beneficiaries of their respective Investment Projects, in accordance
with existing policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured under
contracts awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, its accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the

                   account referred to in Section 4.03 of this
                   Agreement, for each fiscal year audited in
                   accordance with sound auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of said
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   open and thereafter maintain on its books, in accordance
with its normal financial procedures and on conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, a separate account to which it shall credit each
payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal
under, a Sub-loan upon receipt thereof. All amounts so credited to
said separate account shall be utilized by the Borrower, to the
extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower’s repayment
obligations to the Bank under this Agreement, exclusively to finance
the construction of dwellings or the development of sites for
housing in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and

      (b)   maintain procedures satisfactory to the Bank to enable
the Borrower properly to monitor the Borrower’s utilization of the
amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

      Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1992: (i) earn an annual return on its
operations of not less than 2.2%; and (ii) maintain (A) a ratio of
total operating expenses to the average value of total assets of not
higher than 1.3%; (B) a ratio of current assets to current sight
deposits of not less than 1:5; and (C) a ratio of equity to total
assets of not less than 1:18.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to
the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its interest
rates and other financial charges) in order to meet such
requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The annual return on the Borrower’s operations
                   shall be calculated by subtracting the
                   Borrower’s total financial expenses for the
                   fiscal year under review from its total
                   operating revenues for said fiscal year and
                   dividing the result by the average value of the
                   Borrower’s total assets.

           (ii)    The term "total assets" means total assets in
                   the audited balance sheet of the Borrower for
                   the fiscal year under review.

          (iii)    The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources for the fiscal year
                   under review.

           (iv)    The term "total financial expenses" means all
                   interest and other charges on indebtedness of
                   the Borrower, payable during the fiscal year
                   under review, and the foreign exchange losses
                   referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement
                   incurred during said year.

            (v)    The average value of the Borrower’s total assets
                   shall be calculated as one half of the sum of
                   the value of the Borrower’s total assets at the
                   beginning and at the end of the fiscal year
                   under review, as valued from time to time in
                   accordance with sound and consistently
                   maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                   the Bank.

            (vi)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
                   depreciation on a basis acceptable to the Bank,
                   but excluding interest and other charges on
                   debt.

           (vii)   The term "current assets" means all cash and
                   marketable securities of the Borrower.

          (viii)   The term "current sight deposits" means all
                   checking accounts maintained by the Borrower.

            (ix)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
                   cover specific liabilities, including the part
                   of provisions for loan losses which may be
                   allocated to general reserves according to the
                   annual audit report referred to in Section 4.02
                   of this Agreement for the fiscal year under
                   review.

            (x)    Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 15 to 1.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.

           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
                   extent, the amount of such debt has become
                   outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
                   or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                   agreement, on the date the agreement providing
                   for such guarantee has been entered into but
                   only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
                   outstanding.

          (iii)    The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
                   cover specific liabilities, including the part
                   of provisions for loan losses which may be
                   allocated to general reserves according to the
                   annual audit referred to in Section 4.02 of this
                   Agreement.

           (iv)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall provide no financing for an Investment Project
if, after the provision of such financing, the aggregate principal
amount of all financing then outstanding provided by the Borrower
for such Investment Project would be greater than 20% of the equity
of the Borrower.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)    the term "financing" means a loan or guarantee
                   for, or an equity investment in, an Investment
                   Project to the extent such loan, guarantee or
                   investment is not fully secured by guarantees
                   provided by an institution acceptable to the
                   Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
                   the Bank; and

           (ii)    the term "equity" means the sum of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
                   and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
                   cover specific liabilities, including the part
                   of provisions for loan losses which may be
                   allocated to general reserves according to the
                   annual audit report referred to in Section 4.02
                   of this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Charter or the Statement of Policy or the Credit
Policy Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability
to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall have failed to maintain its
participation in the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme in
accordance with the requirements thereof or the Guarantor shall have
failed to maintain the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) or 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President Director-General of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),

                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Credit Immobilier et Hctelier
            187, Avenue Hassan II
            Casablanca
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   CIH                       23869 M
                   Casablanca

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of
the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Harinder Kohli

                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                   REAL ESTATE AND HOTEL FINANCE COMPANY

                   By /s/ Othmane Slimani
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans under           39,500,000        90% of amounts
    Part A of the                               paid by the
    Project                                     Borrower

(2) Consultants’                 500,000        100%
    services under
    Part B of the
    Project
                              __________

         TOTAL                40,000,000
                              ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $4,000,000, may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December
1, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in the imple-
mentation of the Guarantor’s strategy to promote the development of
suitable residential lots and housing for low-income families.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by the
Borrower, of specific development projects for the:

(1)   development of residential sites, consisting of the
preparation of residential lots and of sites for associated public
and recreational facilities, the construction of roads, footpaths,
and water supply, sewerage, electricity, telecommunication and
street lighting systems and facilities and the connection of said
systems and facilities to basic infrastructure; and

(2)   construction of dwellings.

Part B:

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the Borrower’s data
processing and management systems.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in  dollars)*

November 15, 1998                           750,000
May 15, 1999                                775,000
November 15, 1999                           805,000
May 15, 2000                                835,000
November 15, 2000                           865,000
May 15, 2001                                895,000
November 15, 2001                           930,000
May 15, 2002                                965,000
November 15, 2002                         1,000,000
May 15, 2003                              1,040,000
November 15, 2003                         1,075,000
May 15, 2004                              1,115,000
November 15, 2004                         1,160,000
May 15, 2005                              1,200,000
November 15, 2005                         1,245,000

May 15, 2006                              1,290,000
November 15, 2006                         1,340,000
May 15, 2007                              1,390,000
November 15, 2007                         1,440,000
May 15, 2008                              1,495,000
November 15, 2008                         1,550,000
May 15, 2009                              1,610,000
November 15, 2009                         1,670,000
May 15, 2010                              1,730,000
November 15, 2010                         1,795,000
May 15, 2011                              1,860,000
November 15, 2011                         1,930,000
May 15, 2012                              2,000,000
November 15, 2012                         2,075,000
May 15, 2013                              2,170,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
              Modifications of the General Conditions
      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

(1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

(2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of

      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

(3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:

            "or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 3 (c) of
      Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
      of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
      or requests permitted under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said
      paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
      requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
      Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
      applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
      portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                           SCHEDULE 5

                  Sub-loans: Criteria, Procedures
                  Principal Terms and Conditions

      Except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the
criteria, procedures and principal terms and conditions set forth in
this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement.

1.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only:

      (a)   to a Beneficiary which shall have established its
creditworthiness to the satisfaction of the Borrower in accordance
with the Statement of Policy and the Credit Policy Guidelines; and

      (b)   for an Investment Project: (i) determined to be
technically and commercially feasible and financially and
economically viable; (ii) in respect of which all required approvals
of the concerned governmental authorities have been secured; and
(iii) designed in accordance with appropriate safety, health and
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank and in such a
manner that (A) if the Sub-loan is for an Investment Project under
Part A (1) of the Project, the serviced residential lots to be
prepared thereunder shall not exceed 120 square meters, and (B) if
the Sub-loan is for an Investment Project under Part A (2) of the
Project, the total estimated value (as defined in Articles 2 and 10
of the order (Arrcte) No. 355-67 dated December 17, 1968, issued by
the Guarantor’s Minister of Finance, relating to construction and
hotel loans) of each dwelling to be constructed thereunder shall not
exceed DH 300,000; all as shall have been established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis an appraisal carried out
in accordance with the Statement of Policy and the Credit Policy
Guidelines and additional guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than one hundred eighty days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the application and information required
under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan;
or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than one hundred eighty days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit

Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan
shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the
sum of $1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or the Guarantor entered
into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have
been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and
materially related to such Investment Project, the foregoing amount
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.

3.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1998.

4.   Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate determined by the Borrower in accordance with the Credit Policy
Guidelines; and (b) made for a period determined pursuant to the
Credit Policy Guidelines and not exceeding (i) in respect of a Sub-
loan made for an Investment Project for the development of sites or
the construction of dwellings intended for resale, 4 years,
inclusive of a grace period of 4 years and (ii) in respect of any
other Sub-loan, 20 years, inclusive of a grace period of 4 years.

5.    Each Sub-loan shall be made on further terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including:

      (a)   that each Beneficiary shall undertake to: (i) carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and appropriate safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank, maintain adequate records and provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources
required for the purpose; (ii) procure the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in
the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the
parties rendering them, and utilize such goods and services
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
enable the Bank and the Borrower to inspect such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including, without
limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any

indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; and (v) prepare
and furnish to the Borrower for forwarding to the Bank, if so
requested by the Bank, all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project; and

      (b)   provisions to ensure the right of the Borrower to
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its contract providing for the Sub-loan.

