d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3506 GA

                          Loan Agreement

                (Forestry and Environment Project)

                              between

                       THE GABONESE REPUBLIC

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated January 15, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3506 GA

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1993, between THE GABONESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated June 1, 1992,
its policies, objectives and program of actions designed to achieve
a rational management and conservation of its forest resources, to
preserve an ecological balance and to maintain the long-term
productive potential of its forest resources (the Forest and
Environmental Sector Strategy); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "MEF" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for
waters and forests;

      (b)   "METPN" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for
environment, tourism and national parks;

      (c)   "DGE" means the Direction Generale de l’Environnement
within METPN;

      (d)   "ENEF" means the Borrower’s national school for waters
and forests, Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Forcts;

      (e)   "Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated June 26, 1991 and July 8, 1991 between
the Borrower and the Bank;

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; and

      (i)   "CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute
Financicre Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($22,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this

Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent

            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, in accordance with its Forest and
Environment Sector Strategy, shall carry out Parts A and E of the
Project through MEF and METPN, Part B of the Project through ENEF
and Parts C and D of the Project through MEF, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    establish and maintain a Project Coordinating
                   Unit within MEF headed by a Project coordinator
                   and staffed with a forest management specialist
                   (employed in accordance with the provisions of
                   Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), a
                   forest engineer, a financial controller, an
                   accountant and support staff in adequate
                   numbers, the said Unit to have the overall
                   responsibility for the supervision and
                   monitoring of the execution of the Project and
                   the coordination of activities of the Borrower’s
                   relevant ministries and agencies under the
                   Project; and

           (ii)    for the purposes of making available its
                   contribution to the Project, open and maintain a
                   Project Account in a local commercial bank, make
                   an initial deposit of CFA Francs one hundred
                   fifty million (CFAF 150,000,000) and replenish
                   said account at least on a quarterly basis or
                   whenever its balance shall be less than CFA
                   Francs ten million (CFAF 10,000,000), up to the
                   amount of the initial deposit.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall, through the Project Coordinating Unit,
beginning November 30, 1992 and thereafter not later than September

30 of each year, furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval,
in respect of the forthcoming year, detailed work programs and
budgets.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1995, carry out
jointly with the Bank a midterm review of the Project and soon
thereafter shall implement the recommendations of such a review. In
order to facilitate this review, the Borrower shall, through the
Project Coordinating Unit, prepare and furnish to the Bank, not
later than four weeks before the scheduled date of this review, a
report of Project activities of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested. The review shall cover inter
alia: (a) policy actions on fiscal and environmental legislation
under the Forest and Environment Sector Strategy; (b) status of
studies under Part A.4 of the Project and proposed timetable for the
implementation of their recommendations; (c) status of the forest
rehabilitation program; (d) progress in the redeployment of MEF
field staff; (e) evaluation of consultants’ performance; and (f)
overall Project performance against established and agreed key
performance indicators.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account and the Project Account
                   for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. Upon completion of the study of the Borrower’s
forest fiscal system, not later than March 31, 1993, the Borrower
shall forward a copy thereof to the Bank, for its review and
comments, and thereafter shall take all necessary legislative and
regulatory measures required to implement, as soon as possible, such
recommendations of said study as agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out its National
and Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) with due diligence and
efficiency; and (b) upon its completion, not later than June 30,
1993, forward a copy thereof to the Bank, for its review and
comments, and soon thereafter implement such recommendations of said
NEAP as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Project Coordinating Unit has been established and
its Project coordinator has assumed his functions;

      (b)   the Project Account has been opened and the initial
deposit of CFA Francs one hundred fifty million (CFAF 150,000,000)
thereinto has been made;

      (c)   the Borrower has adopted and promulgated its
Environmental Law (Loi Relative 
 la Protection et 
 l’Amelioration
de l’Environnement);

      (d)   the Bank has received from the Borrower a staffing plan,
resulting from MEF restructuring, and including a timetable for
field staff redeployment, all satisfactory to the Bank;

      (e)   the Arrcte setting aside the area to be rehabilitated
under Part D.1 of the Project has been signed; and

      (f)   the following decrees in furtherance of the Borrower’s
Law No. 1/82 have been signed: (i) decree definissant les zones
d’exploitation foresticre; and (ii) decree definissant les clauses
des cahiers des charges fixant les rcgles generales et particulicres
de l’exploitation foresticre.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for planning, economy
and territorial development of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministcre de la Planification, de l’Economie
              et de l’Amenagement du Territoire
            B.P. 172
            Libreville
            Gabon

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   GOPLAN                    5370 GO
                   Libreville

      With copy to:

            Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
            B.P. 912
            Libreville
            Gabon

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         THE GABONESE REPUBLIC

                         By /s/ Guy Marcel Eboumy
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                2,000,000      80%

(2)   Vehicles and               6,000,000      100% of foreign
      equipment                                 expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures

(3)   Consultants’                              100%
      services:

      (a) for Part D of          4,500,000
          the Project

      (b) for other Parts        4,300,000
          of the Project,
          including studies

(4)   Fellowships and            2,000,000      100%
      training

(5)   Operating costs            1,100,000      70% through
                                                December 31, 1993,
                                                50% through
                                                December 31, 1995,
                                                and 10% thereafter

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Refunding of                 300,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(7) Unallocated                2,300,000
                              __________

      TOTAL                   22,500,000
                              ==========

2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and

      (c)   the term "operating costs" means mission travel and
subsistence allowances for local and expatriate staff involved in
the Project, operation and maintenance of Project vehicles and
equipment, and office supplies.

3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to contribute to a
better use of the Borrower’s forestry resources; (ii) to reinforce
the strategic planning and operational capacity of the Borrower’s
forestry and environmental institutions; (iii) to resume forestry
and environment research activities; (iv) to make forestry and
environment training more practical and tailored to the needs of the
private sector and to conservation needs; and (v) to support the
creation and maintenance of wildlife reserves.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.

Part A:     Institutional Strengthening

1.    Restructuring of MEF to streamline and better define the
functions of its directorates and to increase its operational,
planning and monitoring capacity and its presence in the field,
including the provision of consultants’ services, the construction
and/or rehabilitation of MEF’s headquarters and offices and staff
housing in regional services, and the acquisition of vehicles and
office equipment.

2.    Strengthening of DGE to increase its operational, planning and
monitoring capacity, including the provision of consultants’
services and the acquisition of vehicles and office equipment.

3.    Training of MEF’s and METPN’s staff.

4.    Support to local environmental assessment efforts and to
sensitization of local communities on environment issues, including
the organization of seminars and workshops and the publication of
environmental documents.

5.    Carrying out of studies, including a feasibility study for the
protection of fifteen recommended ecological zones, and a study, and
its periodic updating, on the state of the Gabonese environment.

Part B:    Forestry and Environment Training

1.    Establishment of a revised training program at ENEF so as to
increase its relevance to employment and productivity in the private
sector.

2.    Implementation of a management and conservation plan for the
Mondah Forest, including the provision of consultants’ services and
fellowships, the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, and the
construction of, and equipment for, a small sawmill.

Part C:     Forestry and Environment Research

1.    Genetic improvement of okoume trees.

2.    Silvicultural operations on natural forest and plantations
with a view of bringing about durable and rational management of
forest resources.

3.    Rationalizing agricultural production systems around
plantation sites through agro-forestry techniques.

4.    Designing and compiling a forest dendrology manual, and the
provision of equipment to ensure the conservation of the collection
of plant species of the National Arboretum.

Part D:     Forest Inventory and Rehabilitation

1.    Preparation and implementation of a management plan, over a
five-year period, for a pilot area of about 40,000 ha of natural

okoume stands, identified from an area of about 275,000 ha around
the village of Foulenzem through a ground inventory at six percent
sample density, including the carrying out of silvicultural
operations and of a faunal and floral inventory, the provision of
consultants’ services, the construction of offices and housing for
staff and trainees at Foulenzem and the acquisition of vehicles and
equipment.

2.    Rehabilitation of an approximate area between 5,000 and 6,000
ha of salvageable artificial okoume stands, inventoried mainly in
the Bokoue, Mvoum, Mbine and Haut-Como regions, through silvi-
cultural, weeding, maintenance and thinning operations and the
rehabilitation of existing access roads, including the provision of
consultants’ services and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

Part E:     Creation and Maintenance of Reserves

      Creation and maintenance of reserves at Moukalaba and Sette-
Cama, within an area of about 800,000 ha of forest land, including
the carrying out of mapping and surveys, the construction of
perimeter tracks and markers, the construction and/or rehabilitation
of offices and staff housing, the provision of consultants’ services
and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      beginning March 15, 1998
      through September 15, 2007           1,125,000

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                   0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:      International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages on an annual basis.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Gabonese
Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Forest inventories and rehabilitation under Part D of the
Project, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list, acceptable to the Bank, of
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraph 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, and civil works may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the

Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

