d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3588 IND

                 (Groundwater Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated  May 26, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3588 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Annual Provincial Project Work Program" means the
program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, of Project
activities to be carried out in a Project Province during a Fiscal
Year;

      (b)   "Bank Indonesia" means the Borrower’s central bank;

      (c)   "BAPPEDA" means any one of the Borrower’s Provincial
Development Planning Agencies in the Project Area;

      (d)   "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development
Planning Agency;

      (e)   "Deep Tubewell" means a tubewell facility with a
tubewell depth in the range of about 70 to 110 meters, located in an
area where groundwater conditions are not suitable for suction mode
pumping, and where, therefore, the tubewell is equipped with a
vertical shaft turbine pump powered by a diesel motor;

      (f)   "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture in the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;

      (g)   "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (h)   "Expansion Area" means an area where there is an
existing groundwater development and where additional groundwater
development is proposed, but where the performance of the existing
groundwater development and the availability of reliable groundwater
resources for the additional development remains to be evaluated to
the satisfaction of the Bank;

      (i)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

      (j)   "Houseyard Irrigation" means a facility, using a Project
tubewell water source, for irrigation for productive purposes of the
yard surrounding a residential dwelling;

      (k)   "Intermediate Tubewell" means a tubewell facility with
a tubewell depth in the range of about 40 to 70 meters, located in
an area where groundwater conditions are suitable for suction mode
pumping, and where, therefore, the tubewell is equipped with a
centrifugal pump powered by a diesel motor;

      (l)   "PRAS" means any one of the Borrower’s Provincial
Agriculture Services in the Project Area;

      (m)   "PRIS" means any one of the Borrower’s Provincial Water
Resources Development Services in the Project Area;

      (n)   "Project Area" means the Borrower’s provinces of Aceh,

North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Lampung, East Java, West Java, North
Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara (West
Timor), and West Nusa Tenggara; and "Project Province" means any one
of such provinces;

      (o)   "Shallow Tubewell" means a tubewell facility with a
tubewell depth of about 30 meters and for which, therefore, shallow
boreholes can be hand-drilled, located in an area where groundwater
conditions are suitable for suction mode pumping, and where,
therefore, the tubewell is equipped with a centrifugal pump powered
by a diesel or kerosene motor; and

      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty four million dollars ($54,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through DGFCA and DGWRD, Parts B, C and E of the Project through
DGWRD, Part D of the Project through DGFCA, Part F of the Project
through DGFCA, DGWRD, PRAS and PRIS, and Part G of the Project
through DGWRD and PRIS, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:           Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:           Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                            East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures

                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Civil works:                              40%

      (a) Part B of the         10,200,000
          Project

      (b) Part G of the            300,000
          Project

(2)   Equipment and                             100% of foreign
      materials:                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
      (a) Parts B and D         22,200,000      expenditures
          of the Project                        (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
      (b) Parts F and G            500,000      of local
          of the Project                        expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Survey, investigation        700,000      91%
      and design services
      under Part A of the
      Project

(4)   Agricultural support         800,000      91%
      under Part D of the
      Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(5)   Institutional support      2,800,000      50%
      under Parts E, F and
      G of the Project

(6)   Operation and maintenance  1,500,000      50%
      under Part C of the
      Project

(7)   Studies under Parts A,       500,000      100%
      B, D and G of
      the Project

(8)   Training under Parts C,    1,400,000      91%
      D, E, F and G of the
      Project

(9)   Consultants’               9,100,000      100%
      services

(10)  Unallocated                4,000,000

      TOTAL                     54,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the

territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "agricultural support" means expenditures for
additional staff employed for the purposes of the Project, rental of
office space and cost of related operation and maintenance, and crop
seeds for demonstration; and

      (d)   the term "institutional support" means expenditures for
additional staff employed for the purposes of the Project,
transportation allowances, honoraria, rental of office space and
cost of related operation and maintenance.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $2,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures in respect of Categories (2), (3) and (5) before that
date but after February 14, 1993; and

      (b)   payments made for expenditures in a Project Province in
respect of Categories (1)(a) and (2)(a):

            (i)    after June 30, 1994, until the Bank has received
      evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has made
      budgetary allocations for Fiscal Year 1994/1995, which provide
      adequate financing to carry out the Annual Provincial Project
      Work Program for the respective Project Province;

            (ii)   after June 30, 1995, until the Bank has received
      evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has made
      budgetary allocations for Fiscal Year 1995/1996, which provide
      adequate financing to carry out the Annual Provincial Project
      Work Program for the respective Project Province;

            (iii)  after June 30, 1996, until the Bank has received
      evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has made
      budgetary allocations for Fiscal Year 1996/1997, which provide
      adequate financing to carry out the Annual Provincial Project
      Work Program for the respective Project Province;

            (iv)   after June 30, 1997, until the Bank has received
      evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower has made
      budgetary allocations for Fiscal Year 1997/1998, which provide
      adequate financing to carry out the Annual Provincial Project
      Work Program for the respective Project Province; and
                   (v)   after June 30, 1998, until the Bank has
            received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
            Borrower has made budgetary allocations for Fiscal Year
            1998/1999, which provide adequate financing to carry out
            the Annual Provincial Project Work Program for the
            respective Project Province.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s
efforts to (i) develop groundwater for irrigation and, where
appropriate, domestic water supply and Houseyard Irrigation
facilities in the Project Area using technology that can be
sustained by the beneficiaries with limited public sector support;
(ii) improve the quality of nutrition and alleviate poverty in the
Project Area; (iii) strengthen the capacity and coordination of the
agencies responsible for groundwater development for irrigated
agriculture and other uses in the Project Area; (iv) strengthen the
monitoring, evaluation and regulation of groundwater resources; and
(v) encourage the participation of women in Project activities.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon

from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Surveys, Investigations and Designs

1.    Carrying out of (i) surveys, investigations and environmental
assessments of the groundwater and land resources, including water
quality and quantity; and (ii) surveys and investigations of socio-
economic factors, including present and future agricultural
productivity, markets, land ownership, incidence of poverty, and
potential beneficiary interest in participating in the development
of the Project Area, to determine the location and the type of
facilities for each proposed groundwater development area, and
provision of related technical assistance.

2.    Carrying out of designs for the construction of Intermediate
Tubewell facilities and Deep Tubewell facilities, and, where
appropriate, domestic water supply and Houseyard Irrigation
facilities, in selected groundwater development areas, and provision
of related technical assistance.

Part B: Construction of Groundwater Facilities

1.    Construction of Intermediate Tubewell facilities for
groundwater irrigation and, where appropriate, domestic water supply
and Houseyard Irrigation facilities, in the Project Area in
accordance with the designs carried out under Part A.2 of the
Project, and provision of related equipment, materials and technical
assistance.

2.    Construction of Deep Tubewell facilities for groundwater
irrigation and, where appropriate, domestic water supply and
Houseyard Irrigation facilities, in East Java, West Java, Lampung
and West Nusa Tenggara (Lombok), and in such other Project Provinces
as agreed with the Bank, in accordance with the designs carried out
under Part A.2 of the Project, and provision of related equipment,
materials and technical assistance.

Part C: Initial Support for Operation and
        Maintenance of Tubewell Facilities

      Provision of operation and maintenance support to the water
user associations, established to manage, operate and maintain a
tubewell facility, for a period of two years after the commissioning
of the relevant tubewell facility, including training, provision of
financing for operation and maintenance of the tubewell facility,
and provision of related technical assistance.

Part D: Agricultural Development

1.    Provision of agricultural support services in groundwater
irrigation to DGFCA and PRAS, including employment of additional
staff, provision of office equipment, establishment of demonstration
plots, enhancement of the participation of women, training of staff,
and provision of related technical assistance; and provision of
training to farmer groups in tubewell command areas in irrigation,
house garden enterprises, and development of marketing arrangements
for high value crops.

2.    Carrying out of a pilot program of construction of Shallow
Tubewell facilities in the Project Area, and provision of related
technical assistance.

3.    Preparation of agricultural action plans focussed on
groundwater development in the Project Area and provision of related
technical assistance.

Part E: Community Participation

      Provision of services to communities to enhance their
participation in the development process of groundwater irrigation
under the Project, including establishment and training of water
user associations, and provision of equipment and technical

assistance.

Part F: Institutional Support

      Strengthening DGFCA, DGWRD, PRAS and PRIS through employment
of additional staff, provision of training to staff in (i) the
planning, programming and design of groundwater facilities, (ii) the
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of completed
groundwater facilities, and (iii) inter-agency coordination; and
provision of office equipment and materials, and technical
assistance.

Part G: Groundwater Resource Management

      Strengthening PRIS in the evaluation and monitoring of
groundwater resources through provision of equipment and materials,
training of staff, the carrying out of a study on technical
organizational requirements in East Java, and provision of related
technical assistance.

                     *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      November 15, 1998                    1,010,000
      May 15, 1999                         1,045,000
      November 15, 1999                    1,085,000
      May 15, 2000                         1,125,000
      November 15, 2000                    1,170,000
      May 15, 2001                         1,210,000
      November 15, 2001                    1,255,000
      May 15, 2002                         1,305,000
      November 15, 2002                    1,350,000
      May 15, 2003                         1,400,000
      November 15, 2003                    1,455,000
      May 15, 2004                         1,510,000
      November 15, 2004                    1,565,000
      May 15, 2005                         1,620,000
      November 15, 2005                    1,680,000
      May 15, 2006                         1,745,000
      November 15, 2006                    1,810,000
      May 15, 2007                         1,875,000
      November 15, 2007                    1,945,000
      May 15, 2008                         2,020,000
      November 15, 2008                    2,095,000
      May 15, 2009                         2,170,000
      November 15, 2009                    2,250,000
      May 15, 2010                         2,335,000
      November 15, 2010                    2,425,000
      May 15, 2011                         2,515,000
      November 15, 2011                    2,605,000
      May 15, 2012                         2,705,000
      November 15, 2012                    2,805,000
      May 15, 2013                         2,915,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the

premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency components
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account
in the bid evaluation.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Irrigation equipment and materials estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $900,000, and, subject to the provisions of paragraph
3 below, office and survey equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Office and survey equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Survey, investigation and design services may be procured
through direct contracting in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank, or may be carried out by force account.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a) With respect to each contract for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1993, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000

equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project
in accordance with procedures and criteria acceptable to the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall, in carrying out Part B the Project,
furnish to the Bank:

      (a)   by September 30 of each year, commencing September 30,
1993, for its approval, a proposed Annual Provincial Project Work
Program for each Project Province, including cost estimates, for the
following Fiscal Year; and

      (b)   by December 31 of each year, commencing December 31,
1993, for its review and comments, budget proposals for the agreed
Annual Provincial Project Work Programs.

3.    In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall,
before carrying out works in an Expansion Area, furnish to the Bank
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that:

      (i)   existing tubewells in the Expansion Area have been
monitored and evaluated and found to satisfy performance criteria
agreed with the Bank; and

      (ii)  sufficient dependable groundwater resources are
available to sustain such additional development.

4.    In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
enter into an agreement with each relevant water user association
whereby such water user association agrees to carry out effective
operation and maintenance of the relevant Project groundwater
facility, including bearing the cost of operation and maintenance.

5.    Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, in carrying out Part D of the
Project, take all actions necessary to ensure that agricultural
extension services, satisfactory to the Bank, are provided to
beneficiaries of the Project.

6.   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30 in each year,
commencing June 30, 1994, carry out a review of the implementation
of the Project, in consultation with the Bank, and shall,
thereafter, take into account the results of such review when
preparing the Annual Provincial Project Work Programs for the
following Fiscal Year.

7.    The Borrower undertakes to acquire the vehicles required for
Project implementation in accordance with a schedule and timetable
agreed with the Bank.

8.    The Borrower shall cause BAPPENAS to undertake the overall
coordination of the Project activities until completion of the
Project.

9.    The Borrower shall cause each BAPPEDA in the Project Area to
undertake, until completion of the Project, the coordination of the
Project activities to be carried out within its respective
jurisdiction.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the

Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided suchevidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

