d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3523 PH

               (Telephone System Expansion Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                       Dated April 23, 1993

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3523 PH

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF THE PHILIPPINES (the "Borrower").

      WHEREAS: (A) The Republic of the Philippines (the "Guarantor")
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan, and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;

      WHEREAS: (C) The Project will be carried out by the Philippine
Long Distance Telephone Company ("PLDT", as defined in Section 1.02
(d) of this Agreement), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PLDT the
proceeds of the Loan through a syndicate of banks ("Syndicate
Banks", as defined in Section 1.02 (i) of this Agreement), as
provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS: (D) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PLDT.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
                  arisen under which any further withdrawals
                  under the Loan would be inconsistent with
                  the provisions of Article III, Section 3,
                  of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Guarantee
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Charter" means the charter of the Borrower (a company
formed and existing under the laws of the Guarantor) dated
December 3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Financing Agreements" mean, collectively, the
Participation Loan and Agency Agreement (as such term is defined in
Section 1.02 (h) of this Agreement) and the Syndicate Loan Agreement
(as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (j) of this Agreement)
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Participating Banks" mean the banks defined as such in
the Participation Loan and Agency Agreement (as such term is defined
in Section 1.02 (h) of this Agreement);

      (d)   "PLDT" means the Philippine Long Distance Telephone
Company, a company formed and existing under the laws of the
Guarantor, or any successor or successors thereto;

      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PLDT of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Statement of Policy" means the policy statement
specifying the Borrower’s objectives, general operational
principles, investment policies, financial prudence limits,
financial policy and capital structure, and the statement of lending
and investment policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower and
the Guarantor;

      (h)   "Participation Loan and Agency Agreement" means the
agreement entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Participating Banks pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Participation Loan and Agency Agreement;

      (i)   "Syndicate Banks" means the banks participating in the

Syndicate as defined in the Participation Loan and Agency Agreement;
and

      (j)   "Syndicate Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
or to be entered into between the Borrower, acting for itself and on
behalf of the Participating Banks, and PLDT pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Syndicate Loan Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred thirty-four million dollars
($134,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half
of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.

      (c)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period
                  commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
                  of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage
                  per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii)  ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause PLDT to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of PLDT therein set forth, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to PLDT under financing agreements in the form of: (i) a
participation loan and agency agreement entered or to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Participating Banks; and (ii) a
syndicate loan agreement entered or to be entered into between the
Borrower, acting for itself and on behalf of the Participating
Banks, and PLDT, both under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, including the principal terms and conditions specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financing Agreements
or any provision thereof.

      (d)  In consideration of the Guarantor’s entering into the
Guarantee Agreement with the Bank, the Borrower shall pay to the
Guarantor the fees specified in Section 2.03 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project, and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the

obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement shall be carried out by PLDT pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                  the financial statements and those for the
                  Special Account for such year as so audited; and
                  (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   PLDT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   The parties to the Financing Agreements shall have
failed to perform any of their respective obligations under the
Financing Agreements.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PLDT will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   A governing regulation or any provisions thereof shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of PLDT to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (e)   The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PLDT, or for the suspension of its operations.

      (f)   PLDT shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature, or any action or proceeding shall have been taken whereby
any of its properties shall or may be distributed among its

creditors.

      (g)   The Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower, or its ability to perform any of its obligations
under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   The events specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that:

      (a)   The MOU (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (b) of
the Guarantee Agreement) has been executed on behalf of the
Guarantor and the Borrower and has entered into effect;

      (b)   The Participation Loan and Agency Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Participating Banks and
has entered into effect; and

      (c)   The Syndicate Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Syndicate Banks and PLDT and has entered into effect.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLDT, and is legally binding upon PLDT in accordance
with its terms;

      (b)   That the MOU (as such term is defined in Section 1.02
(b) of the Guarantee Agreement) has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Guarantor and the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the
Guarantor and the Borrower in accordance with its terms;

      (c)   That the Participation Loan and Agency Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Participating Banks, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
the Participating Banks in accordance with its terms; and

      (d)   That the Syndicate Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, for and on behalf of itself
and the Participating Banks, and PLDT, and is legally binding upon
the Syndicate Banks and PLDT in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 440098 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Development Bank of the Philippines
            Makati, Metro-Manila
            Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  PHILDEBANK                 22197
                  Manila

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                  DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                  By /s/ Roberto F. de Ocampo
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the

                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Telecommunication,       117,000,000       100% of foreign
     power and training                         expenditures,
     equipment                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory)
                                                and 85% of
                                                other local
                                                expenditures

(2)  Consultants’ services      2,000,000       100%

(3)  Unallocated               15,000,000
                              ___________

     TOTAL                    134,000,000
                              ===========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor, or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

     (b)  The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor, or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the technical
and commercial operations of PLDT; and (b) expand telecommunication
services throughout the Guarantor’s territory.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower, PLDT, and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

     Expansion and rehabilitation of PLDT’s network to provide: (1)
new and improved services, inter alia, in high priority industrial
estate and provincial areas as specified by the Guarantor; (2)
public calling offices in provincial areas; (3) extension of PLDT’s
toll network to inter-connect isolated exchanges; and (4) special
circuits in the Metro-Manila area and provincial cities to be used
as leased lines.

     Provision of a transmission maintenance system and training
equipment to improve the performance of PLDT’s operations,
maintenance and training.

     Provision of technical assistance for management of PLDT’s
investment projects.

                 *              *               *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*

April 15, 1998                                  2,470,000
October 15, 1998                                2,565,000
April 15, 1999                                  2,660,000
October 15, 1999                                2,765,000
April 15, 2000                                  2,870,000
October 15, 2000                                2,975,000
April 15, 2001                                  3,090,000
October 15, 2001                                3,205,000
April 15, 2002                                  3,330,000
October 15, 2002                                3,455,000
April 15, 2003                                  3,585,000
October 15, 2003                                3,725,000
April 15, 2004                                  3,865,000
October 15, 2004                                4,010,000
April 15, 2005                                  4,165,000
October 15, 2005                                4,320,000
April 15, 2006                                  4,485,000
October 15, 2006                                4,655,000
April 15, 2007                                  4,835,000
October 15, 2007                                5,015,000
April 15, 2008                                  5,210,000
October 15, 2008                                5,405,000
April 15, 2009                                  5,610,000
October 15, 2009                                5,825,000
April 15, 2010                                  6,045,000
October 15, 2010                                6,275,000
April 15, 2011                                  6,515,000
October 15, 2011                                6,760,000
April 15, 2012                                  7,020,000
October 15, 2012                                7,290,000

_______________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on the
                                   day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before                 1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

     (b)  The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                 deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                 and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                 graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                 from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                 Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                 requested and as shall have been shown by said
                 documents and other evidence to have been made out
                 of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:

     (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)  Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.   (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

     (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

     (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

     (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 5

    Principal Terms and Conditions of the Financing Agreements

1.   Participation Loan and Agency Agreement

     (a)   The Borrower shall make available to the Participating
           Banks a participation term loan facility (the "PTLF") in
           an amount equal to ninety-nine million dollars
           ($99,000,000), or such other amount as may be agreed with
           the Bank, to be allocated among the Participating Banks
           in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

     (b)   The Participating Banks shall repay the withdrawn amounts
           of the PTLF over a period of ten (10) years, including
           four (4) years of grace.

     (c)   The Participating Banks shall pay interest at the rate
           equal to two and one-quarter percent (2-1/4%) per annum
           above the Bank’s rate specified in Section 2.05 of this
           Agreement on the amounts of the PTLF withdrawn from time
           to time. The interest rate payable by the Participating
           Banks shall include the fees referred to in sub-paragraph
           1 (f) below.

     (d)   The Participating Banks shall pay a commitment charge on
           the unwithdrawn amount of the PTLF at the rate specified
           in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

     (e)   The Participating Banks shall bear the foreign exchange
           risk between the dollar and the currency of the
           Guarantor.

     (f)   The Participating Banks shall, under the Participation
           Loan and Agency Agreement: (1) reimburse the guarantee
           fee and cross-currency risk fee, each at the rate equal
           to one percent (1%) per annum, paid by the Borrower to
           the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement; and (2) also
           pay to the Borrower an agency fee, at the rate equal to
           one-quarter of one percent (1/4 of 1 %) per annum.

     (g)   The Borrower and the Participating Banks, shall for the
           purpose of onlending the proceeds of the Loan to PLDT,
           form a syndicate.  The Participating Banks shall appoint
           the Borrower as their agent and syndicate manager, and
           authorize and empower the Borrower as such to enter into
           and execute the Syndicate Loan Agreement with PLDT.

2.   Syndicate Loan Agreement

     (a)   The Syndicate Banks shall make available to PLDT a
           syndicate term loan facility (the "STLF") in an amount
           equal to one hundred thirty-four million dollars
           ($134,000,000).

     (b)   PLDT shall repay the withdrawn amounts of the STLF as
           follows:

           (i)   The Borrower’s portion, to the Borrower over a
                 period of twelve (12) years, including four (4)
                 years of grace.

           (ii)  The Participating Banks’ portion, to each of the
                 Participating Banks over a period of ten (10)
                 years, including four (4) years of grace.

     (c)   PLDT shall pay interest at the rate equal to three and
           one-quarter percent (3-1/4%) above the Bank’s rate
           specified in this Agreement on the amounts of the STLF
           withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     (d)   PLDT shall pay a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn
           amounts of the STLF at the rate specified in this
           Agreement.

     (e)   PLDT shall bear the foreign exchange risk between the
           dollar and the currency of the Guarantor.

     (f)   PLDT shall reimburse the agency fee paid to the Borrower
           by the Participating Banks.

