d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3587 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

        (Second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 14, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3587 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June  14, 1993, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts A, C and D of the Project will be carried out by
the ORMVAs (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the ORMVAs as a grant a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided for in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the ORMVAs;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "DER" means the Department of Rural Equipment within the
Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform;

      (b)   "CNCP" means the National Project Coordinating Committee
to be established pursuant to the provisions of Section B.1 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "PMC" means the Performance Monitoring Committee to be
established pursuant to the provisions of Section B.3 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement;

      (d)   "CPE" means the Committee for Environmental Protection
to be established pursuant to the provisions of Section D.1 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (e)   "Doukkala ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole des Doukkala, a public enterprise established and operating
pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 827-66 of the Borrower, dated
October 22, 1966;

      (f)   "Gharb ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole du Gharb, a public enterprise established and operating
pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 830-66 of the Borrower, dated
October 22, 1966;

      (g)   "Haouz ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole du Haouz, a public enterprise established and operating
pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 831-66 of the Borrower, dated
October 22, 1966;

      (h)   "Loukkos ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole du Loukkos, a public enterprise established and operating
pursuant to Law (Dahir) No. 1-74-238 of the Borrower, dated April
23, 1975;

      (i)   "Moulouya ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole de la Moulouya, a public enterprise established and
operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 832-66 of the Borrower,
dated October 22, 1966;

      (j)   "Ouarzazate ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en
Valeur Agricole de Ouarzazate, a public enterprise established and
operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 829-66 of the Borrower,
dated October 22, 1966;

      (k)   "Souss-Massa ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en
Valeur Agricole du Souss-Massa, a public enterprise established and
operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 2-70-157 of the Borrower,
dated October 8, 1970;

      (l)   "Tadla ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole du Tadla, a public enterprise established and operating
pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 828-66 of the Borrower, dated

October 22, 1966;

      (m)   "Tafilalet ORMVA" means Office Regional de Mise en
Valeur Agricole du Tafilalet, a public enterprise established and
operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 833-66 of the Borrower,
dated October 22, 1966;

      (n)   "ORMVAs" means, collectively, Doukkala ORMVA, Gharb
ORMVA, Haouz ORMVA, Loukkos ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA, Ouarzazate ORMVA,
Souss-Massa ORMVA, Tadla ORMVA and Tafilalet ORMVA; and "ORMVA"
means any one of the ORMVAs;

      (o)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and the ORMVAs acting severally, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (q)   "Perimeter" means, in respect of each ORMVA, an
irrigated perimeter which is under the jurisdiction of such ORMVA;
and "Perimeters" means, in respect of each ORMVA, collectively, all
of the irrigated perimeters which are under the jurisdiction of such
ORMVA;

      (r)   "Irrigation System" means, in respect of each ORMVA, the
(i) irrigation networks, including distribution canals, pipes,
drains and feeder roads; (ii) pumping stations; (iii) main canals;
and (iv) miscellaneous structures located within such ORMVA’s
Perimeters, as the same may be extended and improved from time to
time; and "Irrigation Systems" means all of the networks, stations,
canals and structures referred to in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii)
and (iv) of this paragraph located within the ORMVAs’ Perimeters;

      (s)   "Water Charges" means charges, including volume charges
and pumping fees, owed to the ORMVAs for water distributed through
the ORMVAs’ Irrigation Systems for agricultural as well as non-
agricultural purposes;

      (t)   "Land Betterment Levies" means levies owed to the ORMVAs
by farmers within the ORMVAs’ Perimeters in reimbursement of part of
the Borrower’s investment in the Irrigation Systems;

      (u)   "Management Improvement Plan" means such plan, as may be
adopted from time to time by the Borrower and an ORMVA, setting out
mutual obligations of the Borrower and such ORMVA, including acts to
be carried out and measures to be taken to improve the management
and financial performance of the ORMVA;

      (v)   "LSIIU" means the Large Scale Irrigation Improvement
Unit to be established in accordance with the provisions of Section
A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (w)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifteen million dollars ($215,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and

services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in a currency and a
financial institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the

            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:

            (i)    shall carry out Parts B and E of the Project
                   through DER with due diligence and efficiency
                   and in conformity with appropriate admini-
                   strative and financial practices, and shall
                   provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                   facilities, services and other resources
                   required for such Parts of the Project;

           (ii)    without limitation upon the provisions of
                   paragraph (i) above, and except as the Borrower
                   and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
                   shall carry out Parts B and E of the Project in
                   accordance with the Implementation Program set
                   forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

          (iii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
                   the Borrower shall cause the ORMVAs to perform
                   their obligations set forth in the Project
                   Agreement, shall take, or cause to be taken, all
                   action, including the provision of funds,
                   facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable the ORMVAs to
                   perform their obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall make available to the ORMVAs as a
grant an amount equivalent to two hundred million dollars
($200,000,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services required for
Parts B and E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, C and D
of the Project shall be carried out by the ORMVAs pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such Year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank a study designed to
provide an analysis of the operation and maintenance costs of the
ORMVAs’ Irrigation Systems, other than those of Ouarzazate ORMVA and
Tafilalet ORMVA, and, on the basis of the findings of said study,
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, not
later than June 30, 1994, an action plan designed to ensure recovery
by each of the ORMVAs referred to in this paragraph of 100% of the
operation and maintenance costs (including overhead costs) and part
of the depreciation costs of the ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      (b)   The Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views with
respect to the above-mentioned plan and the Borrower shall, not
later than June 30, 1995, implement said plan taking into account
the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (a) prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comments, not later than June 30, 1994,
a proposal to revise the Borrower’s methodology for calculating Land
Betterment Levies, such proposal to account for pumping energy costs
currently borne by the Borrower; and (b) taking the Bank’s comments
on said proposal into account, adopt and put into effect a new
methodology for calculating Land Betterment Levies not later than
December 31, 1994.

      Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, not later
than December 31, 1996, or such other date as may be acceptable to
the Bank, carry out a mid-term joint review to assess overall
progress toward achieving the objectives of the Project.

      (b)   As part of the review referred to in the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower and the Bank shall (i) take all measures
necessary to reallocate the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan taking
into account each ORMVA’s individual implementation capability; and
(ii) identify those ORMVAs, if any, which would be eligible for
future direct Bank lending.

      Section 4.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, and for purposes of ensuring adequate
funding for Parts A, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall,
each Fiscal Year until completion of the Project, take all measures
necessary on its part to enable each ORMVA to meet its obligations
under Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Any ORMVA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that an ORMVA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Law (Dahir) No. 1-74-238 of the Borrower, dated
April 23, 1975, or any one of the following Decrees (Decrets) of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of an ORMVA to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement: No. 2-70-157,
dated October 8, 1970, Nos. 827-66, 828-66, 829-66, 830-66, 831-66,
832-66 and 833-66, all dated October 22, 1966.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of an ORMVA or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

      Section 5.03. If the Bank shall suspend in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions as a result of the failure of
any ORMVA to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the Bank shall take into account the part of the Loan
allocated to such ORMVA in determining the portion of the Loan

affected by said suspension.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   LSIIU has been established in accordance with the
provisions of Section A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (b)   CNCP has been established in accordance with the
provisions of Section B.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   PMC has been established in accordance with the
provisions of Section B.3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by each ORMVA and is legally binding
upon each ORMVA in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINSTERE DES FINANCES     31936 M

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of
the day and year first above written.

                         KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                         By /s/ Mohamed Berrada
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Harinder Kohli
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works              120,000,000        60%

(2) Equipment and             57,000,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles                                    expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures

(3) Training and              19,000,000        100%
    consultants’
    services

(4) Unallocated               19,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               215,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$7,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
April 30, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(i) enhancing the effectiveness of water distribution within the
ORMVAs’ Irrigation Systems; (ii) preserving the Borrower’s
investments in large scale irrigation; (iii) reducing large scale
irrigation subsidies; and (iv) monitoring and mitigating the
environmental impact of Project-related activities.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     ORMVAs

      Provision of civil works, equipment, materials, vehicles,
office and housing facilities, technical assistance and training for
purposes of rehabilitating the Irrigation Systems, improving the
ORMVAs’ technical and financial management and enhancing the
efficiency of on-farm water management. Specifically, this Part
shall consist of the following:

      1.    Doukkala ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of the Faregh Perimeter
                         irrigation network.

                  ii.    Upgrading of the lower main canal.

                 iii.    Replacement of equipment at 10 pumping
                         stations in Doukkala ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                  iv.    Miscellaneous repairs of irrigation
                         networks in Doukkala ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                   v.    Carrying out of the activities included in
                         Section F.1 of the Annex to this Schedule
                         in respect of Doukkala ORMVA’s Irrigation
                         System.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.1, A.2, A.3, B, C, D, G and H of the
                   Annex to this Schedule in respect of Doukkala
                   ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      2.    Gharb ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of (x) about 5,000 hectares
                         at the Beht Perimeter irrigation network;
                         and (y) the main canal of said Perimeter.

                  ii.    Improvement of the subsurface drainage
                         system at the Beht Perimeter.

                 iii.    Rehabilitation of about 900 hectares at
                         the flood-damaged irrigation network.

                  iv.    Replacement of equipment at 7 pumping
                         stations within Gharb ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                   v.    Rehabilitation of about 155 km of feeder
                         roads throughout Gharb ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                  vi.    Carrying out of the activities included in
                         Sections F.1 and F.2 of the Annex to this

                         Schedule in respect of Gharb ORMVA’s
                         Irrigation System.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.1, A.2, A.3, B, C, D, G and H of the
                   Annex to this Schedule in respect of Gharb
                   ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      3.    Haouz ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   Rehabilitation of about 3,300 hectares at the
                   Tessaout Amont Perimeter irrigation network,
                   about 2,600 hectares at the Nfis Perimeter
                   irrigation network and about 280 hectares at the
                   Timiris Perimeter irrigation network.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Mangement and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.2, B, C, D, E, G and H of the Annex
                   to this Schedule in respect of Haouz ORMVA’s
                   Irrigation System.

      4.    Loukkos ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Replacement of equipment at eight pumping
                         stations within Loukkos ORMVA’s Peri-
                         meters.

                  ii.    Rehabilitation of about 120 km of feeder
                         roads throughout Loukkos ORMVA’s Peri-
                         meters.

                 iii.    Carrying out of the activities included in
                         Section F.2 of the Annex to this Schedule
                         in respect of Loukkos ORMVA’s Irrigation
                         System.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.1, A.2, A.3, B, C, D, G and H of the
                   Annex to this Schedule in respect of Loukkos
                   ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      5.    Moulouya ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of about 5,200 hectares at
                         the Triffa Perimeter irrigation network.

                  ii.    Upgrading of the Triffa main canal.

                 iii.    Improvement of the subsurface drainage
                         network at the Bou Areg Perimeter.

                  iv.    Replacement of equipment at 12 pumping
                         stations within Moulouya ORMVA’s Peri-
                         meters.

                   v.    Rehabilitation of about 160 km of feeder
                         roads throughout Moulouya ORMVA’s Peri-

                         meters.

                  vi.    Miscellaneous repairs of irrigation
                         networks in Moulouya ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                 vii.    Carrying out of the activities included in
                         Sections F.1 and F.2 of the Annex to this
                         Schedule in respect of Moulouya ORMVA’s
                         Irrigation System.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.1, A.2, A.3, B, C, D, E, G and H of
                   the Annex to this Schedule in respect of
                   Moulouya ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      6.    Ouarzazate ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of irrigation networks at
                         ten of Ouarzazate ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                  ii.    Rehabilitation of ten diversion structures
                         within Ouarzazate ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                 iii.    Flood protection of about 1,300 hectares
                         in the Draa Valley Perimeters.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.2, B, C, D, E, G and H of the Annex
                   to this Schedule in respect of Ouarzazate
                   ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      7.    Souss-Massa ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of the irrigation network
                         at the Oughzifen Perimeter.

                  ii.    Rehabilitation of irrigation structures
                         and networks in 3 of Souss-Massa ORMVA’s
                         flood irrigation Perimeters.

                 iii.    Installation of 12 tubewells and related
                         pumping equipment at Souss-Amont.

                  iv.    Replacement of equipment at 20 pumping
                         stations within the Souss-Massa ORMVA’s
                         Perimeters.

                   v.    Rehabilitation of about 108 km of feeder
                         roads throughout Souss-Massa ORMVA’s
                         Perimeters.

                  vi.    Miscellaneous repairs of irrigation
                         networks in Souss-Massa ORMVA’s Peri-
                         meters.

            b.     Irrigation System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.2, A.3, B, C, D, E, G and H of the
                   Annex to this Schedule in respect of Souss-Massa
                   ORMVA’s Irrigation System.

      8.    Tadla ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of about 7,700 hectares at
                         the Beni-Amir Perimeter irrigation network
                         and about 5,000 hectares at the Beni
                         Moussa Perimeter irrigation network.

                  ii.    Upgrading of the main canals at the Beni-
                         Moussa Perimeter.

                 iii.    Improvement of the subsurface drainage
                         systems at the Beni Amir and Beni Moussa
                         Perimeters.

                  iv.    Replacement of equipment at Timoulit
                         pumping station.

                   v.    Miscellaneous repairs of irrigation
                         networks in Tadla ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                  vi.    Carrying out of the activities included in
                         Sections F.1 and F.2 of the Annex to this
                         Schedule in respect of Tadla ORMVA’s
                         Irrigation System.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.2, B, C, D, G and H of the Annex to
                   this Schedule in respect of Tadla ORMVA’s
                   Irrigation System.

      9.    Tafilalet ORMVA

            a.     Irrigation System Rehabilitation

                   i.    Rehabilitation of irrigation networks in
                         Tafilalet ORMVA’s Perimeters.

                  ii.    Rehabilitation of irrigation networks in
                         four of Tafilalet ORMVA’s flood
                         Perimeters.

                 iii.    Upgrading of the transfer canal in the
                         Gheris Perimeter.

            b.     Improvement of ORMVA Management and Irrigation
                   System Management

                   Carrying out of the activities included in
                   Sections A.2, B, C, D, E, G and H of the Annex
                   to this Schedule in respect of Tafilalet ORMVA’s
                   Irrigation System.

Part B:     Institutional Strengthening

1.    Provision of equipment and technical assistance to DER, and
training of the staff of DER and the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance
responsible for Project monitoring and supervision.

2.    Carrying out of a study designed to identify pricing options
for large scale irrigation water.

3.    Preparation of Management Improvement Plans.

4.    Preparation of an action plan to improve delivery of
irrigation water to farmers within the ORMVA’s Perimeters.

5.    Preparation and carrying out of an action plan to revise Water

Charges.

6.    Carrying out of a study to identify long-term options for the
physical rehabilitation of the ORMVAs’ Irrigation Systems.

7.    Carrying out of a study to strengthen the institutional
framework of the Borrower’s large scale irrigation sector.

Part C:     Water Use Efficiency Improvement

1.    Carrying out of a pilot demonstration program on modern
techniques for surface and drip irrigation.

2.    Providing access to credit to farmers within the ORMVAs’
Perimeters to acquire the equipment required for the carrying out of
the program referred to in C.1 above.

3.    Provision of equipment to the ORMVAs to rehabilitate farm
water metering systems in sprinkler-irrigated areas.

Part D:     Water User Associations

1.    Carrying out of a program to promote organization of water
user associations and support therefor.

2.    Construction of field offices for use by the water user
associations and housing facilities for use by ORMVA staff, and
provision of the equipment required to carry out the program
referred to in D.1 above.

Part E:     Flood Damage Repairs

      Repair of the ORMVAs’ flood-damaged Irrigation Systems,
including repair and maintenance of the irrigation networks and all
other supplemental maintenance.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

      A.    Maintenance of the ORMVA’s Irrigation System

            1.     Development, installation and application of
                   computer-assisted procedures for the maintenance
                   of pumping stations.

            2.     Development, installation and application of
                   appropriate procedures for the maintenance of
                   irrigation networks, main canals and mis-
                   cellaneous structures.

            3.     Carrying out of operational audits of the
                   maintenance activities of the ORMVAs’ Irrigation
                   Systems.

      B.    Operation of the ORMVA’s Irrigation System

            Development, installation and application of appropriate
            procedures for water resource management and operations
            of the ORMVAs’ Irrigation Systems.

      C.    Private Sector Role in the Maintenance
            of the Irrigation Systems

            Preparation and implementation of an action program to
            gradually increase the number of sub-contracts to
            private sector contractors in respect of selected
            maintenance activities of the ORMVAs’ Irrigation
            Systems.

      D.    Environmental Protection

            Development and implementation of an action plan to
            monitor the environmental impact of Project-related
            activities.

      E.    Management Information System

            Design and installation of a computerized management
            information system and provision of necessary equipment
            therefor.

      F.    Studies and Supervision of Rehabilitation Activities

            1.     Provision of consultants’ services to carry out
                   engineering studies and supervise the carrying
                   out of rehabilitation activities under the
                   Project.

            2.     Provision of consultants’ services to carry out
                   technical studies to identify existing and
                   potential problems affecting the ORMVAs’
                   subsurface drainage systems.

      G.    Training

            Carrying out of a program to train ORMVA staff in the
            areas of management information systems and operation
            and maintenance of the Irrigation Systems.

      H.    ORMVA Operation and Maintenance

            Provision of machinery, vehicles and equipment, and
            construction of office and housing facilities, to
            strengthen the operation and maintenance activities of
            the ORMVAs.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      December 15, 1998                     4,020,000
      June 15, 1999                         4,170,000
      December 15, 1999                     4,325,000
      June 15, 2000                         4,485,000
      December 15, 2000                     4,650,000
      June 15, 2001                         4,825,000
      December 15, 2001                     5,005,000
      June 15, 2002                         5,190,000      December 15, 2002                     
5,380,000
      June 15, 2003                         5,580,000
      December 15, 2003                     5,790,000
      June 15, 2004                         6,005,000
      December 15, 2004                     6,225,000
      June 15, 2005                         6,460,000
      December 15, 2005                     6,700,000
      June 15, 2006                         6,945,000
      December 15, 2006                     7,205,000
      June 15, 2007                         7,475,000
      December 15, 2007                     7,750,000
      June 15, 2008                         8,040,000
      December 15, 2008                     8,335,000
      June 15, 2009                         8,645,000
      December 15, 2009                     8,970,000
      June 15, 2010                         9,300,000
      December 15, 2010                     9,645,000
      June 15, 2011                        10,005,000
      December 15, 2011                    10,375,000
      June 15, 2012                        10,760,000

      December 15, 2012                    11,160,000
      June 15, 2013                        11,580,000

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 in
total, and items or groups of items of equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract,
but not less than $30,000 each, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Miscellaneous items of equipment and vehicles estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $30,000 each may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for equipment and
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more; (ii)
each contract for automatic hydraulic control equipment; and (iii)
each contract for computer equipment, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditures.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

A.    Project Coordination

1.    The Borrower shall establish LSIIU within DER with permanent
staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and experience shall
be acceptable to the Bank. Functions of LSIIU shall include, inter
alia, responsibility for (i) maintaining Project records and
accounts; (ii) coordinating ORMVA procurement operations; (iii)
preparing withdrawal applications; and (iv) preparing Project
progress reports.

B.    Project Monitoring

1.    For purposes of ensuring effective monitoring and coordination
of the Project, the Borrower shall establish CNCP with membership
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The secretariat of
CNCP shall be assumed by DER. CNCP shall meet at least once a year.

2.    Functions of CNCP shall include, inter alia, the monitoring of
progress in the implementation of the Project and the preparation of
the institutional measures necessary for the carrying out of Part B
of the Project.

3.    For purposes of ensuring effective monitoring of the ORMVAs’
financial performance, the Borrower shall establish PMC with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The
secretariat of PMC shall be assumed by DER. PMC shall meet at least
once a year.

C.    Management Improvement Plans

1.    In order to achieve the objectives of Part B.3 of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1995, furnish to the
Bank for its review and comments draft Management Improvement Plans
for Gharb ORMVA, Haouz ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA, Loukkos ORMVA, Souss-
Massa ORMVA, Ouarzazate ORMVA and Tafilalet ORMVA.

2.    The Bank shall exchange views with the Borrower and each of
the above-mentioned ORMVAs with respect to said draft Plans and the
Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, take all measures
necessary to adopt Management Improvement Plans for each of the
above-mentioned ORMVAs taking into account the Bank’s comments
thereon.

D.    Environmental Protection

1.    In order to monitor implementation by the ORMVAs of the
activities provided for under Section D of the Annex to Schedule 2
to this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
maintain, CPE with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.    The function of CPE shall be to evaluate progress by the
ORMVAs toward attaining the targets set out in the environmental
monitoring and management plans to be prepared by the ORMVAs
pursuant to the provisions of Section I of Schedule 2 of the Project
Agreement. To that end, CPE shall review the progress reports
prepared by the ORMVAs which reports shall provide a description of
the implementation of said plans. The secretariat of CPE shall be
assumed by DER.

3.    The Borrower shall convene, on a semi-annual basis, a CPE
meeting to review implementation of the environmental monitoring
plans to be prepared by the ORMVAs pursuant to the provisions of
Section I of Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement, including progress
achieved by each ORMVA toward attaining the targets set out in its
own environmental monitoring plan, and, not later than July 31 of
each year until completion of the Project, furnish a report to the
Bank, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, containing CPE’s conclusions and recommendations.

E.    Souss Aquifer

1.    In order to implement the objectives of Part A.7.a (iii) of
the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994,
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a plan to improve
the management of the Souss aquifer, and shall, after exchanging
views with the Bank with respect to said plan, promptly commence
implementation thereof.

2.    The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that
contracts for replacement of the tubewells referred to under Part
A.7.a (iii) of the Project shall be awarded only after the Borrower
has commenced implementation of the above-mentioned plan.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the

Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

