d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3629 IND

                 (Water Supply and Sanitation for
                  Low Income Communities Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 12, 1993

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3629 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "BAPPEDA" means any one of the Borrower’s Provincial
Development Planning Agencies in the Project Provinces;

      (b)   "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower’s National Development
Planning Agency;

      (c)   "Bupati" means a Kabupaten chief executive;

      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

      (e)   "Indigenous People" means those social groups in
Indonesia that have a distinct social and cultural identity, and
that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development
process induced by the Project or any part thereof;

      (f)   "INPRES" means, for purposes of the Project, the
Borrower’s development programs, funded through a special
authorization by Presidential Instruction, relating to (i) health
and water supply and sanitation for Kabupaten/Kotamadya governments,
and (ii) development fund for village and Kabupaten/Kotamadya level
governments;

      (g)   "Kabupaten" means an administrative sub-division of a
province;

      (h)   "Kotamadya" means a municipality within a province;

      (i)   "NGO" means a non-governmental organization, a private
not for profit enterprise whose objectives are to promote
humanitarian assistance and socio-cultural cooperation and
development;

      (j)   "Participating Village" means a village or a community
in a Project Province for which an acceptable Village Action Plan
has been prepared and signed, and where water supply schemes will be
constructed or rehabilitated under the Project;

      (k)   "Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of
Central Java, Southeast Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North Sulawesi,
Maluku, and East Nusa Tenggara, and "Project Province" means any one
of such provinces;

      (l)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated December 2, 1992 and January 22, 1993,
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in

Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (n)   "Village Action Plan" means the action plan prepared for
purposes of Part A of the Project by a village in a Project Province
in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in
Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      (c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as

                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, educational, engineering, environmental, financial,
health, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is

designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:          Telex:
                  FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:          Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Mr. Tjahjono, Charge d’Affaires
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Civil works and
      construction
      materials for:

      (a) water supply          33,300,000      55%
          systems and
          sanitation
          facilities other
          than (b) below

      (b) type C non-            2,500,000      55% of standard
          piped systems                         unit cost per
          constructed                           completed unit
          by force
          account

(2)   Equipment (other           1,400,000      100% of foreign
      than computers                            expenditures,
      and vehicles) and                         100% of local
      furniture                                 expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Educational                1,400,000      55%
      materials

(4)   Consultants’              22,500,000      100%
      services, design
      and survey
      services, studies

(5)   Training                   6,400,000      55%

(6)   Local travel and           4,600,000      100%
      allowances for
      Project staff and
      consumable office
      supplies

(7)   Refunding of                              Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement

(8)   Unallocated                7,900,000
                                ----------
      TOTAL                     80,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c) the term "type C non-piped system" means a simple, non-
piped, point source, water supply system.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and

      (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1)
until the Borrower has:

      (i)   employed the following consultants in accordance with
            Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement: (1) a
            Project management expert to assist the Central Project
            Secretariat, in the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, and
            the Technical Coordinating Committee’s Working Groups;
            (2) a community development and training expert to
            assist the Directorate General for Regional Development
            and the Directorate General for Rural Development in the
            Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs; and (3) a national
            policy management expert to assist the Central Project
            Secretariat in the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; and

      (ii)  employed, in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
            Agreement, qualified NGOs to assist in the carrying out
            of Parts A, B.1 (a) and B.1 (b) of the Project in the
            initial fifty-two Participating Villages.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to provide safe, adequate
and easily accessible water supply and sanitation services, and
support hygiene and health education, for poor communities in under-
served and unserved rural villages and in communities around a few
densely populated centers through sustainable and community-based
arrangements.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Direct Infrastructure Development Support

1.    Construction of piped and non-piped water systems and
rehabilitation of existing water systems in about 1,400
Participating Villages, and provision of related technical
assistance.

2.    Construction of sanitation facilities in Participating
Villages, including individual household and communal latrines, and
institutional sanitation facilities at schools, health centers and
religious institutions; provision of demonstration and training in
construction of sanitation facilities and solid waste disposal
schemes in Participating Villages, and provision of related
technical assistance.

Part B: Institutional Development and Capacity Building Support

1.    Hygiene and Sanitation Education

      (a)   Provision of hygiene and sanitation education in
Participating Villages, including mass media campaigns on hygiene,
water and sanitation-related issues, and provision of related
technical assistance.

      (b)   Provision of orientation and training in hygiene and
sanitation for health staff, Kabupaten/Kotamadya level and below
Project implementation staff, school teachers, NGOs participating in
Project activities, and community groups including cadres, in the
Project Provinces, and provision of related technical assistance.
      (c)   Acquisition of audio-visual equipment, educational
materials, and communication packages for selected health offices,
health centers and schools in the Project Provinces.

      (d)   Carrying out of water quality surveillance and
monitoring in selected Participating Villages, and provision of
related technical assistance.

2.    Training and Community and Institutional Development

      (a)   Provision of training to health staff, Kabupaten/
Kotamadya level and below Project implementation staff, and
community groups in water supply and sanitation for homes and
institutions and in the development of community-based approaches to
water supply and sanitation.

      (b)   Strengthening the capacities of government institutions
involved in Project implementation at the Kabupaten/Kotamadya level
and below in Project planning, Project management and other relevant
technical capabilities, and strengthening Project planning, Project
management and relevant technical capabilities of NGOs participating
in Project activities, through provision of relevant training and
technical assistance.

3.    Studies

      (a)   Carrying out of studies on the following subjects:
poverty targeting of villages; determinants of water demand; Project
impact evaluation; sanitation stimulant strategy and its
effectiveness; impact of hygiene and sanitation on health knowledge,
attitudes and practices of village communities; women in
development; and related subjects.

      (b)   Preparation of a Project completion report.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1999                             1,495,000
September 15, 1999                         1,550,000
March 15, 2000                             1,610,000
September 15, 2000                         1,670,000
March 15, 2001                             1,730,000
September 15, 2001                         1,795,000
March 15, 2002                             1,860,000
September 15, 2002                         1,930,000
March 15, 2003                             2,000,000
September 15, 2003                         2,075,000
March 15, 2004                             2,155,000
September 15, 2004                         2,235,000
March 15, 2005                             2,315,000
September 15, 2005                         2,405,000
March 15, 2006                             2,490,000
September 15, 2006                         2,585,000
March 15, 2007                             2,680,000
September 15, 2007                         2,780,000
March 15, 2008                             2,885,000
September 15, 2008                         2,990,000
March 15, 2009                             3,100,000
September 15, 2009                         3,215,000
March 15, 2010                             3,335,000
September 15, 2010                         3,460,000
March 15, 2011                             3,590,000
September 15, 2011                         3,725,000
March 15, 2012                             3,860,000
September 15, 2012                         4,005,000
March 15, 2013                             4,155,000
September 15, 2013                         4,320,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other

internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works, including construction materials for large and
medium sized piped water supply systems, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $22,100,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Civil works, including construction materials for large and
medium sized piped water supply systems, estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $65,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $7,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Civil works, excluding construction materials, in remote areas
estimated to cost less than $15,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,300,000, may be carried out through force
account in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Equipment, materials and furniture, including pipes and
accessories, reinforced steel bars, electro-mechanical equipment,
pumps and hand-pumps, small tools, cement, and office equipment
(except computers and vehicles) estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $26,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Provided,
however, that such equipment, materials and furniture estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $12,700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Provided further that such equipment, materials and furniture
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,800,000, may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

5.    Educational materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

6.   Educational materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a) With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines

shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank. The consultants, other than
those referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
shall be employed not later than February 28, 1994.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project:

      (a)   the Functional Coordination Committee, chaired by
BAPPENAS, to coordinate and provide guidance on policy matters
relating to the Project;

      (b)   the Technical Coordinating Committee to provide routine
coordination and guidance to the three working groups referred to in
sub-paragraph (c) below;

      (c)   the following working groups of the Technical
Coordinating Committee:

            (i) the working group for drinking water quality and

            health and hygiene education;

            (ii) the working group for institutional and
            administrative arrangements, community participation,
            and operation and maintenance of the water supply and
            sanitation schemes under the Project; and

            (iii) the working group for technical aspects of water
            schemes and sanitation; and

      (d)   the Central Project Secretariat, established within the
Ministry of Health, to coordinate Project activities between the
central and provincial levels.

2.    The Borrower shall select villages and communities in the
Project Provinces for participation in the Project in accordance
with criteria acceptable to the Bank, including: poverty level,
incidence of water-borne diseases, water scarcity, water quality,
infant mortality, and willingness to contribute to the cost of
construction and operations and maintenance of water supply and
sanitation schemes.

3.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than
February 28 in each year until completion of Part A of the Project,
commencing February 28, 1994, a schedule, acceptable to the Bank, of
budget ceilings for the grants to be provided by the Borrower to
Participating Villages for the construction of water supply schemes
under Part A of the Project during the following Fiscal Year.

4.    To participate under Part A of the Project, a village or
community, selected in accordance with the criteria referred in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, shall prepare a Village Action Plan,
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the format agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.

5.    The Village Action Plan shall include, among others, the
following:

      (a)   evidence that a village water and sanitation committee
            has been established; and

      (b)   the amount of the contributions from the Participating
            Village for operation and maintenance and capital cost
            recovery, based on the following principles:

                   (i)   the cost of both routine operation and
            maintenance and replacement of assets with less than
            seven years expected life shall be covered by
            contributions by the Participating Village. The
            Participating Village may, however, use other sources of
            funds to cover the cost of replacement of such assets,
            including INPRES funds;

                   (ii)  the Participating Village shall cover at
            least 4% of the total capital cost of the construction
            of the water supply and sanitation schemes in cash; and

                   (iii) households requesting private water
            connections shall pay the full cost of the services
            provided, including the capital cost of connection.

6.    In cases where a Participating Village is unable to cover the
cost of unexpected major repairs from its own resources and such
Participating Village has collected at least 75% of the amounts due
by households for operation and maintenance of the water supply and
sanitation schemes as set forth in the Village Action Plan, the
Borrower shall cause the relevant Kabupaten government to provide
funds from its general budget to cover the cost of such repairs.

7.   In Kabupatens and Kotamadyas where villages or communities
have been selected for participation in the Project, the Borrower
shall cause the relevant Kabupaten or Kotamadya government to issue:

      (a)   promptly after the selection, a decree establishing
Project implementation procedures and specific responsibilities of
Project management offices, acceptable to the Bank; and

      (b)   promptly after the approval of the Village Action Plan,
a decree setting forth the authorization for the collection of the
contributions by the relevant Participating Village to the capital
cost of the constructions and operation and maintenance of the water
supply and sanitation schemes as set out in the relevant Village
Action Plan.

8.    The Borrower is committed to the protection of the interests
of Indigenous People and hereby agrees to ensure that the benefits
they receive under the Project are in harmony with their economic,
social, and cultural preferences. Notwithstanding the generality of
the foregoing, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   through a process of informed participation, involve
concerned Indigenous People in the preparation and implementation of
relevant Village Action Plans as agreed with the Bank; and

      (b)   mitigate or avoid adverse effects on Indigenous People
caused or likely to be caused by the Project.

9.    The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1993, furnish
to the Bank a schedule, acceptable to the Bank, for the carrying out
of the training program under Part B of the Project.

10.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than February 28, 1994:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank an action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, for providing training in Project
implementation to women; and

      (b)   initiate pilot programs in nine Participating Villages
to enhance the role of women in water supply and sanitation related
programs, and, thereafter, incorporate the successful activities in
future Village Action Plans as necessary.

11.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later January 1, 1994, furnish to the Bank an action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, for the transfer of the responsibility for
the construction of large and medium sized piped water supply
systems serving several villages, financed by allocations from the
Borrower’s development budget (DIP), to Kabupaten level public works
project managers in the relevant Kabupatens by not later than
April 1, 1996.

12.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, as required, and in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, qualified NGOs to assist villages in
the Project Provinces in the carrying out of the following
activities:

      (a)   provision of training to community leaders and other
            members of the community on community organization and
            development;

      (b)   preparation of Village Action Plans;

      (c)   provision of hygiene and sanitation education to
            community members;

      (d)   promotion of, and assistance in, latrine construction;

      (e)   construction of simple, non-piped, water supply schemes;

      (f)   organization and training of water user groups, parti-
            cularly women, in operation and maintenance and income
            generating activities; and

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 tothis Agreement;

      (g)   monitoring and evaluation of Project activities and
            preparation of Project reports.

13.   The Borrower shall employ, as required, and in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, qualified NGOs to assist the Borrower
in the carrying out of Parts B.2(b) and B.3 of the Project.

14.   The Borrower shall procure the computers and vehicles required
for the Project in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the
Bank.

15.   The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate Project implementation
in accordance with criteria and indicators acceptable to the Bank,
including monitoring of the effects of the Project on Indigenous
People.

16.   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1995, carry out a
review of the implementation of the Project in the fifty-two initial
Participating Villages, in consultation with the Bank, and shall,
thereafter, take into account the results of such review when
carrying out activities under the Project.

17.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, carry
out a mid-term review of the implementation of the Project, in
consultation with the Bank, and shall, thereafter, take into account
the results of such review when carrying out activities under the
Project.

                           SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,

                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

