d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3551 SEY

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

                (Environment and Transport Project)

                              between

                      REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated January 15, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3551 SEY

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
SEYCHELLES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower has prepared an environmental action plan
for the management and preservation of its environment (hereinafter
referred to as the Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles or
EMPS);

      (C)   by agreement dated January 15, 1993 (the GET Grant
Agreement), the Bank, acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by
Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global
Environment Trust Fund (GET), has agreed to make a grant (the GET
Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to SDR 1,300,000 to support the EMPS by financing Part B of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GET Grant

Agreement; and

      (D)   Part A.1 of the Project will be carried out by Public
Utilities Corporation (PUC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PUC a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PUC;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "DCA" means the Borrower’s Directorate of Civil
Aviation;

      (b)   "DOE" means the Division of Environment of MEPER;

      (c)   "LTD" means the Land Transport Division of the
Borrower’s Ministry of Tourism and Transport;

      (d)   "MEPER" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment,
Economic Planning and External Relations;

      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PUC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (f)   "SFA" means the Seychelles Fishing Authority;

      (g)   "SFA Memorandum of Understanding" means the Memorandum
of Understanding to be prepared and agreed upon by MEPER and SFA,
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the SFA Memorandum of Understanding.

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (i)   "SR" or "Seychelles rupee" refers to the Borrower’s
currency; and

      (j)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PUC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,

and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. PUC is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A.1 of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:

            (i)    shall carry out Parts A.2 and A.4 of the Project
                   through MEPER, Part A.3 thereof through SFA,
                   Parts C.1 and C.3 thereof through LTD, and Part
                   C.2 thereof through DCA/LTD, with due diligence
                   and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate
                   administrative, financial and technical
                   practices, and with due regard to ecological and
                   environmental factors, and shall provide,
                   promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                   services and other resources required for such
                   Parts of the Project; and

           (ii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
                   the Borrower shall cause PUC to perform all its
                   obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
                   shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                   including the provision of funds, facilities,
                   services and other resources, necessary or
                   appropriate to enable PUC to perform such
                   obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
                   taken any action which would prevent or
                   interfere with such performance.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A.2 through A.4
and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the SFA Memorandum of
Understanding.

      (c)   For purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall relend to PUC a part of the proceeds of the Loan, not
exceeding the amount of the Loan allocated thereto under the
Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PUC, and under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including: (i) an annual
interest rate of 8 percent on the disbursed and outstanding amount
of the loan, and a repayment period of thirteen years including a
grace period of three years; and (ii) provisions requiring the
Borrower to bear the foreign exchange risks involved in the
transaction.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for Parts A.2 through A.4 and C of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04 through 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A.1 of the Project
shall be carried out by PUC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause MEPER and SFA to
prepare and agree upon a Memorandum of Understanding, giving details
of the implementation arrangements for the preparation of management
plans under Part A.3 of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A.2 through A.4 and C of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information

                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   PUC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PUC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The Public Utilities Corporation Act (Act 25 of 1985)
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of PUC to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PUC or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the National Coordinator referred to in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 5 hereto has been designated; and

      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PUC.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PUC, and is legally binding upon PUC in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PUC, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PUC in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Environment, Economic Planning
              and External Relations
            P.O. Box 656
            Mont Fleuri
            Republic of Seychelles

            Telefax:                       Telex:

                   248 24845                 997 2260 MINAE SZ

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES

                   By /s/ Marc Marengo
                                         Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Francisco Aquirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works:                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
    (a)  under Part A.1                         75% of local
         of the Project          150,000        expenditures

    (b)  under Part C.1
         of the Project        1,750,000

    (c)  under Part C.2
         of the Project          100,000

    (d)  other                   100,000

(2) Equipment, materials                        100% of foreign
    and supplies:                               expenditures and
                                                75% of local
    (a)  under Part A.1                         expenditures
         of the Project          100,000

    (b)  under Part A.3
         of the Project          150,000

    (c)  under Part C.1
         of the Project           50,000

    (d)  other                   400,000
    Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Training                     100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures

(4) Technical assistance:                       50% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
    (a)  under Part A.3                         consultants
         of the Project          350,000        domiciled within

                                                the territory of
    (b)  other                   250,000        the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants

(5) Consultants’                                50% of local
    services:                                   expenditures for
                                                services of
    (a)  under Part A.3                         consultants
         of the Project          125,000        domiciled within
                                                the territory of
    (b)  other                   475,000        the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants

(6) Artisan compensation         100,000        100% of foreign
    and reinstallation                          expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(7) Unallocated                  300,000
                               _________

         TOTAL                 4,500,000
                               =========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "artisan compensation and reinstallation" means
compensation and other payments incurred in the retraining or
reinstallation of licensed turtle shell artisans, whose businesses
are adversely affected by the ban on the capture of hawksbill
turtles and related activities under the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   expenditures under categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the environmental
impact assessment referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 has been
conducted;

      (c)   expenditures under categories (2) (b), (4) (a) and (5)
(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the SFA
Memorandum of Understanding has been duly prepared and agreed upon,
and a copy thereof transmitted to the Bank;

      (d)   expenditures under categories (1) (b) and (2) (c) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the road
rehabilitation specialist referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
hereto has been duly recruited; and

      (e)   expenditures under category (1) (c) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the landing charges referred to
in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been increased
to SR 30 per 1000 kg or part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to support environmental
programs in resource management, biodiversity conservation and
marine pollution control, assist with implementation of the EMPS,
and improve the basis for sustained tourism growth, while preserving
or restoring environmentally sensitive areas.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Environment (Resource Management Program)

1.    Praslin Water Supply Phase II

      o     construction of two additional intakes near existing
            intakes at Fond B’Offay and Nouvelle Decouverte.

2.    Water Resources/Water management Studies of Outer Islands

      o     study of water resources and water management
            requirements of seven outer islands: Alphonse,
            Assomption, Astove, Coetivy, Desroches, Farquhar and
            Providence.

      o     implementation of water resources monitoring program.

3.    Preparation of Marine Resources Management Plans

      o     preparation and implementation of plans for the
            management of marine fisheries resources, especially
            tuna, reef fishes, demersal fishes and lobsters.

      o     preparation of education and information materials.

4.    DOE Organizational Study

      o     study of the organizational structure, including
            proposals for an improved structure for DOE, an
            assessment of coordination and monitoring requirements
            for environmental programs, and staffing and training
            proposals.

Part B:     Environment (Biodiversity Conservation and Marine
            Pollution Abatement Program)

1.    Aldabra Ecosystem Restoration Program

      o     rehabilitation of scientific research station.

      o     strengthening of scientific and managerial personnel.

      o     eradication of feral goats.

      o     preparation of long term management plan for Aldabra.

2.    Protection of Sea Turtles

      (a)   Green turtle protection program:

            *      stock assessment, and preparation of a plan for
                   the achievement and maintenance of a sustainable
                   yield, of green turtles.

      (b)   Hawksbill turtle protection program:

            *      turtle ranching feasibility study.

            *      program (legislative measures, publicity
                   campaigns, etc.) to control the supply and

                   demand of turtle shells.

            *      turtle trade compensation study.

            *      compensation, retraining, and reinstallation
                   program for turtle shell artisans.

3.    Abatement of Marine Pollution

      o     feasibility study and engineering designs for the
            construction of facilities to receive and dispose of
            waste from commercial and fishing vessels at the Port of
            Victoria.

Part C:     Transport

1.    Praslin Road Improvement Program

      o     upgrading to paved status of Anse Boudin, Anse
            Consolation and Anse Kerlan road segments on Praslin,
            totalling 13.3 km.

2.    Praslin Airport Improvements

      o     extension and paving of parking apron.

      o     resurfacing of existing runway.

3.    Road Traffic Safety Program

      o     diagnostic and evaluation study of current situation,
            including an evaluation of economic and social costs of
            road accidents, and a proposed action plan to improve
            traffic safety.

      o     introduction of road signs and markings, installation of
            crash barriers, and improvement of street lighting.

      o     construction of 3-km footpath along Cascade Road to
            separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

      SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15,

      beginning August 15, 1998
      through August 15, 2007              225,000.00

On February 15, 2008                       225,000.00

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts under Parts C.1 and C.2
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $2,200,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Seychelles may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Contracts for road safety and traffic management measures, up

to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contracts required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contracts.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contracts together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II: Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.2
through A.4 and C, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall designate a National Coordinator within
MEPER to be responsible for the overall coordination of the EMPS,
including implementation of this Project.

2.    The Borrower shall make annual budgetary allocations for road
maintenance and to finance the operational budget of LTD, that are
at least equal in real terms to the corresponding allocation
approved for fiscal year 1992.

3.    The Borrower shall make annual budgetary allocations to
finance the operational budget of DOE, that are at least equal in
real terms to the corresponding allocation approved for fiscal year
1992.

4.    The Borrower shall cause LTD to recruit a road rehabilitation
specialist to be posted on a full time basis on Praslin to manage
the road maintenance program under Part C.1 of the Project.

5.    The Borrower shall have an environmental impact assessment
conducted in relation to Part A.1 of the Project, in order to

determine, in particular, any possible impact thereof on the Vallee
de Mai National Park.

6.    The Borrower shall, from time to time, revise the landing
charges for aircraft using the aerodrome at Praslin, with a view to
ensuring that revenues deriving therefrom are at all times at least
equal to the operating costs of the aerodrome.

7.    The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1993, transfer
to PUC all water and water-related assets operated by PUC and owned
by the Borrower.

8.    (a)   Not later than December 31, 1994, the Borrower and the
Bank shall undertake, in conjunction with PUC,  a mid-term review of
the Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on all
matters relating to the progress of the Project, and the performance
by the Borrower and PUC of their respective obligations under this
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
including, but not limited to: (i) the impact on the Praslin economy
and environment of basic infrastructure investments in water supply,
road rehabilitation and airport improvements; and (ii) progress
achieved by PUC in the furtherance of its financial objectives, as
set forth in the rate of return and other financial covenants under
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.

      (b)   Not later than one month prior to such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, a report, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress
and status of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the
specific issues due to be addressed during such review.

      (c)   Following such review, the Borrower shall act promptly
and diligently, in order to take, or assist PUC in taking, any
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted
in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist PUC
in implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for

                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B)deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

