d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3614 UA

                          Loan Agreement

                  (Institution Building Project)

                              between

                              UKRAINE

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 25, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3614 UA

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1993, between UKRAINE (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "AMC" means the Borrower’s Anti-Monopoly Committee;

      (b)   "Executing Agencies" means, collectively, the Borrower’s
Ministries and other Governmental Agencies referred to in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy;

      (d)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

      (e)   "MOS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Statistics;

      (f)   "NBU" means National Bank of Ukraine, the Borrower’s
Central Bank;

      (g)   "PIU" means the project implementation unit referred to
in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated April 23, 1993 and May 5, 1993 between
the Borrower and the Bank;

      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (j)   "SPF" means the Borrower’s State Property Fund; and

      (k)   "STI" means the Borrower’s Tax Inspectorate.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to

itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period

            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                          ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Executing Agencies as set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at all
times headed by a coordinator with qualifications, terms of
reference and experience satisfactory to the Bank, who shall be
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers and by consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, advising on procurement and disbursement
matters.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out all studies included in the Project under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, when applicable,
shall include specific programs or plans of action to meet the
objectives of the Project;

      (b)   promptly after the completion of each study, furnish to
the Bank copy of its findings and recommendations including such
programs or plans of action; and

      (c)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action.

      Section 3.05. Regarding the training programs to be carried
out under the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each of
such programs as well as the schedule for its implementation;

      (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   not later than September 30 of each year exchange views
with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the
following calendar year; and

      (d)   furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training
program and the benefits to be derived therefrom.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            12/2 Hrushevsky St.
            Kiev, Ukraine 252008

                                          Telex:

                                            131450

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        UKRAINE

                        By /s/ Oleh Hryhorovich Bilorus
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of

                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods                                       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
    (a)  for Parts A,         12,300,000        100% of local
         B(2), B(3)                             expenditures
         and C of the                           (ex-factory
         Project                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
    (b)  for Part B(1)         1,900,000        expenditures for
         of the Project                         other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Consultants’                                100%
    services and
    training

    (a)  for Parts A,          9,300,000
         B(2), B(3) and
         C of the
         Project

    (b)  for Part B(1)           600,000
         of the Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Refunding of                 900,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(4) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                27,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures".

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and

      (b)   expenditures for goods under Subcategories (1) (b) and
(2) (b) prior to establishment of an adequately staffed National
Payments Council with functions and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support, through the
provision of technical assistance services, the development of key
institutions in areas which would contribute to the establishment of
the Borrower’s capacity to design and carry out a comprehensive
national economic reform program consisting of: (i) designing and
developing specific reform policies, programs and implementation
plans; (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity and skills base
required to carry out the reform program; and (iii) carrying out
preparatory work in other areas where technical assistance is needed
and in sectoral economic analysis.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A:     Enterprise Reform

1.    Provision of technical assistance, training services,
equipment and materials: (a) to assist in the implementation of
privatization and regulatory reform sub-projects in selected oblasts
and cities; (b) to carry out pilot privatization sub-projects
involving the privatization of approximately five selected
enterprises; and (c) to furnish public information regarding
privatization.

2.    Provision of technical assistance, training services,
equipment and materials: (a) to develop and enforce antimonopoly,
fair trade, consumer protection and other policies aimed at
enhancing enterprise competition and to break up selected monopoly
enterprises; and (b) to strengthen the AMC.

Part B:     Financial Sector Development

      Provision of technical assistance, training services,
equipment and materials to support the reform and strengthening of
the Borrower’s financial sector including:

(1)   modernization of the payments system, including the
development of the necessary legislation, regulations, standards,
instruments, and institutions;

(2)   developing and implementation of new auditing and accounting
systems and procedures for financial institutions; and

(3)   carrying out diagnostic studies and developing a program for
the strengthening of up to three banks doing business in the
territory of the Borrower.

Part C:     Public Financial and Economic Management

      Provision of technical assistance, training services,
equipment and materials for:

(1)   the establishment of a treasury system in MOF;

(2)   modernization of tax administration;

(3)   support for the establishment of a project implementation unit
(PIU) for the Project;

(4)   strengthening MOE’s capacity to design and implement economic
policies during the transition to a market economy; and

(5)   the establishment of a modern statistical information system
capable of meeting essential requirements for conducting economic
policy analysis in a market economy.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                     ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

              Executing Agencies Responsible for the
                    Carrying Out of the Project

Part of the Project                        Agency

Part A.1                                   SPF

Part A.2                                   AMC

Part B                                     NBU

Part C.1                                   MOF

Part C.2                                   STI

Part C.3                                   MOE

Part C.4                                   MOE

Part C.5                                   MOS

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 1 and July 1

      beginning January 1, 1999
      through   January 1, 2010            1,125,000

And on July 1, 2010                        1,125,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitations to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standards bidding documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.

Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items expected to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for goods which are of proprietary nature or which
require standardization with existing equipment, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $100,000, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more as well as the first two contracts
awarded under international shopping procedures under Part B (1)
hereof, and the first two contracts awarded under Part B (2) hereof,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified

to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

A.    Overall Coordination and Management of the Project

1.    In accordance with the decision of the Currency-Credit Council
of the Borrower of April 7, 1993, the First Deputy Minister of the
Economy shall be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the
overall implementation of the Project by the Executing Agencies.

2.    Responsibility for day-to-day Project management shall be
vested in the PIU, which shall report to the First Deputy Minister
of the Economy. In particular, the PIU shall be responsible for:

      (a) maintaining Project accounts;

      (b) assisting the Executing Agencies in procurement matters;

      (c) monitoring the timely carrying out of the Project
activities;

      (d) preparing regular Project progress reports;

      (e) providing managerial and technical assistance for Project
activities if so requested by the implementing entity.

3.    Each of the designated Executing Agencies shall carry out the
procurement of goods and consultants’ services pertaining to the
Parts of the Project for which they are responsible under the Annex
to Schedule 2 and ensure the transfer of such goods and allocation
of such services to the beneficiaries thereof under appropriate
administrative or contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank.

B.    Particular Actions for Implementation of the Project

      Pursuant to carrying out the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Executing Agencies shall undertake the following
actions in a manner acceptable to the Bank:

Part A of the Project

1.    The oblasts and municipalities to be included in privatization
sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be selected by MOE
in consultation with SPF under agreed selection procedures.

2.    The enterprises to be included in the pilot privatization sub-
projects under Part A.1 of the Project shall be selected by SPF and
MOE under agreed selection criteria.

3.    AMC shall prepare and carry out a staffing plan prior to
execution of Part A.2 of the Project.

Part B of the Project

1.    NBU shall undertake, with the assistance of consultants, the
design of the payments system modernization to be carried out in
consultation with the National Payments Council under Part B (1) of
the Project.

2.    Prior to undertaking the purchase of equipment under Part B
(1) of the Project NBU shall adopt an action plan for the
implementation of payments system reforms, including detailed
specification of the equipment needs to be financed under the
Project.

3.    The banks to be included in the institutional development
program under Part B (3) of the Project shall be selected by NBU in
accordance with agreed selection procedures.

Part C of the Project

1.    By September 1, 1993, MOF shall establish a task force for
design and implementation of the treasury system under Part C (1) of
the Project.

2.    Prior to undertaking the purchase of equipment for full
implementation of the new treasury system under Part C (1) of the
Project, MOF shall, with the assistance of consultants, take all
measures necessary to implement the design and pilot phase
activities, including detailed specification of the equipment needs
to be financed under the Project.

3.    MOS shall prepare a work program for the establishment of the
modern statistical information system, including detailed
specification of the equipment requirements to be financed under
Part C (5) the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount

equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such

amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

