d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                         CONFORMED

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3537 PNG

                  (Education Development Project)

                              between

             THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated July 1st, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3537 PNG

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 1st, 1993, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE
OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a) "CODE" means the College of Distance Education;

      (b) "K" or "Kina" means the currency of the Borrower; and

      (c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Kina a special deposit account in Bank of Papua New
Guinea (its Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the

preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and out-standing from time
            to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
            on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, educational, engineering and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

             (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

             (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

           (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Department of Finance and Planning
            Vulupindi Haus
            Post Office Wards Strip
            Waigani, N. C. D.
            Papua New Guinea

            Cable address:              Telex:

                  TREASURER               NE 22218
                  Boroko

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                        By /s/   Margaret Taylor
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/   Shahid Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Civil works               11,500,000      65%

(2)   Equipment, books,         19,500,000      100% of foreign
      educational                               expenditures,
      materials, and                            100% of local
      related transport                         expenditures
      services                                  (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Fellowships                  300,000      100%

(4)   Consultants’               1,400,000      100%
      services

(5)   Unallocated                2,300,000

              TOTAL             35,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the implementation of its education sector policies and investment
plans through assistance for increasing access to education,
improving the quality of education, and strengthening institutional
management.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Increasing Access to Education

1.    Construction of a national high school for day students at
Gerehu, in the suburb of Port Moresby, with an enrollment capacity
of about 500 students, acquisition of related equipment and furni-
ture, and employment of staff.

2.    Construction of additional facilities for grades 11 and 12 at
the Hoskins and Malala provincial high schools for about 250
students each, acquisition of related equipment and furniture, and
employment of additional staff.

3.    Upgrading of physical facilities at national high schools,
provincial high schools, vocational centers, and CODE centers.

4.    Strengthening of the program of Certificate of Business
Studies through writing, editing and printing of course material for
stages 2 and 3 of said program, and acquisition of related office
equipment.

Part B: Improving the Quality of Education

1.    Resupply of existing textbooks and related educational
materials for community schools and provincial high schools, and
distribution, storage and security of textbooks and educational
materials.

2.    Development of new and revised textbooks and related educa-
tional materials for community schools and provincial high schools,
and distribution, storage and security of textbooks and educational
materials.

3.    Strengthening of curriculum development, including provision
of workshops, and writing, field testing and evaluation of
curricular materials.

4.    Carrying out of a pilot program relating to the retention and
security of textbooks and educational materials in the classroom,
including training in materials management, care and storage.

5.    Strengthening of the advisory, evaluation and counselling
services to schools through employment of additional inspectors and
guidance officers, and provision of training including overseas
training, transport, and construction of about 25 houses, for
inspectors and guidance officers.

6.    Development of libraries in community schools, provincial high
schools, vocational centers, and CODE centers, through acquisition
of books, and employment of additional staff at the National
Library.

Part C: Strengthening Institutional Management

1.    Strengthening the planning and management capacities of the
education divisions of the Provincial Departments through:
preparation of planning and management manuals; employment of
regional advisors; provision of fellowships, construction of two
houses, provision of transportation, and acquisition of office
equipment, for the regional advisors; and provision of technical
assistance.

2.    Carrying out of policy studies on female participation in
education, on cost effectiveness of education, and on teacher
education.

Part D: Project Management and Evaluation

      Provision of technical assistance and workshops for staff
responsible for Project implementation and evaluation.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

September 1, 1998                          645,000
March 1, 1999                              670,000
September 1, 1999                          695,000
March 1, 2000                              720,000
September 1, 2000                          750,000
March 1, 2001                              775,000
September 1, 2001                          805,000
March 1, 2002                              840,000
September 1, 2002                          870,000
March 1, 2003                              905,000
September 1, 2003                          935,000
March 1, 2004                              970,000
September 1, 2004                        1,010,000
March 1, 2005                            1,050,000
September 1, 2005                        1,090,000
March 1, 2006                            1,130,000
September 1, 2006                        1,170,000
March 1, 2007                            1,215,000
September 1, 2007                        1,265,000
March 1, 2008                            1,310,000
September 1, 2008                        1,360,000
March 1, 2009                            1,410,000
September 1, 2009                        1,465,000
March 1, 2010                            1,520,000
September 1, 2010                        1,580,000
March 1, 2011                            1,640,000
September 1, 2011                        1,700,000
March 1, 2012                            1,765,000
September 1, 2012                        1,835,000
March 1, 2013                            1,905,000

_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Papua New Guinea
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works under Parts A.2, A.3, B.5 and C.1 of the Project
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Civil works under Part A.3 of the Project estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $8,500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three contractors eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Civil works under Part A.3 of the Project estimated to cost
less than $40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $4,000,000, may be procured through direct
contracting, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank,
or may be carried out by force account.

4.    Civil works in remote areas under Part B.5 of the Project, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be carried out
by force account.

5.    Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, and services for transportation of goods
under the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

6.     Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

7.    Contracts for printing of textbooks and educational materials
under Part B.1 of the Project, and contracts for library books and
computer software may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a) With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts C.1 and
D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than March 31, 1993, employ a curriculum development
coordinator, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

2.    In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than September 30, 1993, establish five
additional positions of inspectors and two additional positions of
guidance officers; and not later than January 31, 1994, appoint
qualified staff to such positions;

      (b)   not later than September 30, 1994, establish three
additional positions of inspectors and one additional position of
guidance officer; and not later than January 31, 1995, appoint
qualified staff to such positions; and

      (c)   not later than September 30, 1995, establish three
additional positions of inspectors and two additional positions of
guidance officers; and not later than January 31, 1996, appoint
qualified staff to such positions.

3.    In carrying out Part B.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than April 30, 1993, establish one library advisor
position and appoint a qualified staff to such position; and (b) not
later than April 30, 1994, establish one library advisor position
and one support librarian position, and appoint qualified staff to
such positions.

4.    In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than June 30, 1993, employ, in accordance with
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a special advisor in
education planning and management;

      (b)   not later than September 30, 1993, establish a position
of regional planning and management advisor and, not later than
January 31, 1994, appoint a qualified staff to such position;

      (c)   not later than September 30, 1994, establish a position
for a second regional advisor and, not later than January 31, 1995,
appoint a qualified staff to such position; and

      (d)   not later than September 30, 1995, establish a position
for a third regional advisor and, not later than January 31, 1996,
appoint a qualified staff to such position.

5.    In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   by August 31, 1993, carry out, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, the study on female participation in
education and promptly thereafter furnish the recommendations of the
studies to the Bank for comments;

      (b)   by December 31, 1993, prepare an action plan on
improvement of female participation in education taking into account
the comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the study; and

      (c)   by March 31, 1994, commence the implementation of the
action plan.

6.    In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   by September 30, 1993, carry out, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, the study on improvement of cost
effectiveness of education and promptly thereafter furnish the
recommendations of the study to the Bank for comments;

      (b)   by February 28, 1994, prepare an action plan on
improvement of cost effectiveness in education, taking into account
the comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the study; and

      (c)   by May 31, 1994, commence the implementation of the
action plan.

7.    In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   by October 31, 1993, carry out, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, the study on teacher education and
promptly thereafter furnish the recommendations of the study to the
Bank for comments;

      (b)   by March 31, 1994, prepare an action plan on improvement
of cost effectiveness in education, taking into account the comments
of the Bank on the recommendations of the study; and

      (c)   by June 30, 1994, commence the implementation of the
action plan.

8.    In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   maintain until completion of the Project, a Project
Implementation Unit in the National Department of Education, with

qualified staff in adequate numbers, including the following staff
to be appointed not later than March 31, 1993: (i) a project
coordinator; (ii) a procurement manager; and (iii) a maintenance
manager; and

      (b)   not later than March 31, 1994, appoint an accountant to
the Project Implementation Unit in the National Department of
Education.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and depo-
sited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special

Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

