d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3630 IN

                          Loan Agreement

    (Technical Assistance (Private Power Development) Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                 POWER FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED

                        Dated July 7, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3630 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POWER FINANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (b)   "SEB" means a State Electricity Board established and
governed by the provisions of The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 of
the Guarantor, as amended from time to time.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in State Bank
of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Loan to SEBs and other power utilities under financial arrangements

to be entered into between the Borrower and SEBs or other power
utilities, as the case may be, on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank.

      Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Implementation Unit
with adequate staff.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each financial year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than 6 months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                   provided, however, that the unaudited financial
                   statements shall be furnished to the Bank each
                   year no later than two months after the end of
                   each financial year; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the financial
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such financial
                   year, together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Chairman and Managing Director of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Power Finance Corporation Limited
            Chandra Lok, 36 Janpath
            New Delhi, India

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   POFICORP                031-65336 PFCLIN
                   New Delhi

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia

                   POWER FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED

                   By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Consultants               18,000,000      100%
      services

(2)   Equipment and              1,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials                                 expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Unallocated                1,000,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                     20,000,000
                                ==========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to provide expert services to
SEBs and other power utilities to build up skills to implement the
Guarantor’s private power development policy and negotiate with
private investors for the execution of private power projects.

Part A:

Part B:

Part C:

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

      Utilization of consultants’ services by SEBs and other power
utilities to evaluate outstanding project proposals, review proposed
contractual arrangements and negotiate power purchase and other
related agreements with private/joint venture power promoters.

      Utilization of consultants’ services for the preparation,
solicitation and evaluation of proposals and negotiations with
selected bidders for the implementation of new power projects.

       Utilization of consultants’ services for the preparation,
solicitation and evaluation of proposals and negotiations for
privatization of power projects.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      March 1, 1999                              375,000
      September 1, 1999                          390,000
      March 1, 2000                              400,000
      September 1, 2000                          415,000
      March 1, 2001                              435,000
      September 1, 2001                          450,000
      March 1, 2002                              465,000
      September 1, 2002                          485,000
      March 1, 2003                              500,000
      September 1, 2003                          520,000
      March 1, 2004                              540,000
      September 1, 2004                          560,000
      March 1, 2005                              580,000
      September 1, 2005                          600,000
      March 1, 2006                              625,000
      September 1, 2006                          645,000
      March 1, 2007                              670,000
      September 1, 2007                          695,000
      March 1, 2008                              720,000
      September 1, 2008                          750,000
      March 1, 2009                              775,000
      September 1, 2009                          805,000
      March 1, 2010                              835,000
      September 1, 2010                          865,000
      March 1, 2011                              895,000
      September 1, 2011                          930,000
      March 1, 2012                              965,000
      September 1, 2012                        1,000,000
      March 1, 2013                            1,040,000
      September 1, 2013                        1,070,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     Procurement Procedures

1.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 below, goods may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4

of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms agreed
with the Bank shall be used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the

Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,

refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

