d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3599 POL

                          Loan Agreement

         (Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated October 11, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3599 POL
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 8, 1993
(the DP letter) from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve the restructuring and
privatization of public enterprises and the banking system of the
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;

      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance in the implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan (as
hereinafter defined); and

      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program and the Debt Reduction Plan to
provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports, debt reduction operations
      and other activities that may be financed out of the proceeds
      of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
      Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      Program and the Debt Reduction Plan referred to in the
      Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
      the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
      the Loan.";

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Banking System Transformation Sub-Program" means the
program referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (b)   "Bank Supervision Sub-Program" means the detailed plan
to strengthen the supervision of banks by NBP set forth in
paragraphs 51 through 60 of the DP letter;

      (c)   "COM" means the Borrower’s Council of Ministers;

      (d)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at reducing the Borrower’s payments
of principal, interest and other charges on external loans from non-
official creditors;

      (e)   "EBRP Sub-Program" means the Borrower’s program provided
in the EBRP Law, aimed at the restructuring and/or privatization of
SOEs to be carried out by SOCBs and IDA and the recapitalization of
SOCBs and referred to in the Program;

      (f)   "EBRP Decree" means the Borrower’s Decree, satisfactory
to the Bank, regulating the provisions of the EBRP Law;

      (g)   "EBRP Law" means the law of the Borrower contained in
the Bill of Law No. 18, dated March 4, 1993, which allows the
Executive Branch of the Borrower to carry out the EBRP Sub-Program;

      (h)   "IDA" means the Borrower’s Industrial Development Agency

established by the Act of Liquidation of some target funds, pub-
lished in Journal of Laws of December 14, 1990, No. 89, item 517;

      (i)   "Intervention Decree" means the COM’s Decree or
Resolution, satisfactory to the Bank, regulating the financial
assistance to be provided by the Borrower to SOEs pursuant to the
Borrower’s Budget Laws for year 1993 and thereafter;

      (j)   "IDA Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening - Phase I" means the comprehensive program of
organizational and staffing strengthening for IDA, satisfactory to
the Bank set forth in the letter from IDA to the Bank dated March
16, 1993;

      (k)   "IDA Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening - Phase II" means the program of organizational and
staffing strengthening to be carried out by IDA in 1994 and referred
to in paragraph 13 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (l)   "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank regarding the use of
part of the proceeds of the Loan in the carrying out of the Debt
Reduction Plan, referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;

      (m)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;

      (n)   "Monitoring Unit" means the unit in MOF referred to in
paragraph 42 of the DP letter;

      (o)   "MOP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Privatization;

      (p)   "MOP 1993 Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening" means the Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening for MOP described in the letter from MOP to the Bank
dated March 18, 1993;

      (q)   "MOP 1994 Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening" means the Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening for MOP to be carried out in 1994 and referred to in
paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (r)   "NBP" means the National Bank of Poland, the Borrower’s
central bank, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s
Law of January 31, 1989, published, as amended, in the Borrower’s
Journal of Laws No. 72, item 360, dated September 29, 1992;

      (s)   "Privatization" means the transfer of majority
ownership, control or management of SOEs to the private sector;

      (t)   "Privatization Law" means the Borrower’s Law of July 13,
1990, published in the Borrower’s Journal of Laws No. 51, dated
July 24, 1990, item 298;

      (u)   "Privatization Sub-Program" means the Borrower’s
detailed program for the privatization of SOEs described in
paragraphs 44 through 49 of the DP letter;

      (v)   "Recapitalization Bonds" means the bonds to be issued by
the Borrower pursuant to the EBRP Law and the Borrower’s 1993 Budget
Law to support the capitalization of the SOCBs;

      (w)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);

      (x)   "SOCB" means one of the nine commercial banks, as long
as they are majority owned or controlled by, or operating for the
benefit of, the Borrower;

      (y)   "SOE" means an enterprise majority owned or controlled
by the Borrower or any of its agencies or administrative subdivision
thereof;

      (z)   "Special SOE" means an SOE selected by the COM to
receive budgetary financial support under the Program;

      (aa)  "Specialized Bank" means any of the following banks:
Bank Handlowy w Warszawie S.A., Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej, PKO
S.A., and PeKao B.P.;

      (bb)  "WOD" means the department or unit established by each
SOCB to be in charge of the restructuring or liquidation of SOEs
under the EBRP Sub-Program; and

      (cc)  "Zloty" means the currency of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four hundred and fifty million dollars ($450,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the

                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) NBP is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts NBP with responsibility for the preparation
of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the collection of
the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in
support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to
the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal
of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A and, if so
determined under Section 3.05 of this Agreement, Part B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate commercial, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance

with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall submit a plan for the
reduction of its payments of principal, interest and other charges
under loans from non-official external creditors. If in the
exclusive opinion of the Bank such plan meets the requirements for
Bank support of debt reduction operations, the Borrower and the Bank
shall seek to conclude an agreement (the Implementation Agreement)
providing for the use of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Category (2) in the table of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in the execution of the plan.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the EBRP Law, the EBRP Decree, the Intervention Decree
have been enacted in terms consistent with the Program;

      (b)   pursuant to the Borrower’s 1993 Budget law (i) the COM
has been authorized to appropriate an amount equivalent to at least
one hundred and twenty million dollars for providing support to
Special SOEs, and (ii) the issuance of Recapitalization Bonds in
amounts equivalent to about twenty one trillion zloty has been
authorized; and

      (c)   the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program.

      Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the EBRP Law, the EBRP Decree
and the Intervention Decree have been enacted, and the budget
appropriation referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement has been authorized in accordance with the Laws of the
Borrower and are in full force and effect.

      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            00-916, Warszawa
            ul. Swietokrzyska 12
            Republic of Poland

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINF                      814386 PL
                  Poland

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their

duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as
of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                  By /s/ Jerzy Osiaty§ski
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Ernest Stern
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Imported goods                              100% of foreign
    under Part A of                             expenditures
    the Project:

    (a)  to be dis-          125,000,000
         bursed on or
         after the
         Effective
         Date

    (b)  to be dis-          100,000,000
         bursed on or
         after the
         Effective
         Date, sub-
         ject to the
         provisions of
         paragraph 5 (a)
         of this
         Schedule

    (c)  to be dis-          125,000,000
         bursed on or
         after the
         Effective
         Date, subject
         to the pro-
         visions of
         paragraph 5 (b)
         of this
         Schedule

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(2) Debt Reduction           100,000,000        to be agreed by
    Plan                                        the Bank and the
                                                Borrower, subject
                                                to paragraph 3.II
                                                below
                             ___________

         TOTAL               450,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

 I.   Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 above:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items

      112             -             Alcoholic beverages

      121             -             Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse

      122             -             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)

      525             -             Radioactive and associated
                                    materials

      667             -             Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked

      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors

      728.43          -             Tobacco processing machinery

      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                    wares (including set gems)

      971             -             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $45,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures under Category (1) above before
that date but after February 15, 1993;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (f)   expenditures for goods regarded by the Bank as
environmentally hazardous and goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.

II.   Category (2) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule:
unless the Implementation Agreement is in full force and effect in
accordance with its terms, provided, however, that if the
Implementation Agreement shall have not been declared effective by
the Bank according to its terms by June 30, 1994, or such other
later date that the Bank may establish by notice to the Borrower,
then the Bank may at the request of the Borrower reallocate on a
proportional basis such amount of the Loan or part thereof to
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Category (1) in the table in paragraph
1 of this Schedule.

4.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $3,500,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments under such Category
(1) shall have reached the equivalent of (a) $125,000,000, unless
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) that the macro-economic framework is consistent with
the objectives of the Program as determined by the Bank on the basis
of economic and financial indicators acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank, (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (iii) that the actions described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to
the Bank and (b) $225,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) continued
maintenance of a macro-economic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Program, as determined by the Bank on the basis of
economic and financial indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank, (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (iii) that the actions described in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to
the Bank.

6.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 5 (a)
or paragraph 5 (b) above, the Bank shall have given notice to the
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to
the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are the carrying out a program
to allow the financial restructuring and privatization of SOEs and
SOCBs and to improve the environment for competitive private sector
activity and investment and, if so determined under Section 3.05 of
this Agreement, to improve the Borrower’s external debt situation by
the implementation of an external debt reduction program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Imports

      Financing of urgently needed imports required during the
execution of the Project.

Part B:     Debt Reduction Plan

      Implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan which, in the judgment
of the Borrower and of the Bank, shall meet the requirements of the
Bank’s support of debt reduction.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning on August 15, 1998
      through February 15, 2010                 18,750,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.88

      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or

           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or

          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

                            SCHEDULE 5

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (a)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Adequate progress in the execution of the EBRP Sub-program as
provided in the EBRP Law, the EBRP Decree and the Intervention
Decree, including substantial compliance by the SOCBs and IDA with
the obligations and deadlines therein set forth and appropriate
monitoring of the SOCBs’ execution of the EBRP Sub-program by the
Monitoring Unit.

2.    The Recapitalization Bonds have been issued and delivered to
the SOCBs in an aggregate amount and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Adequate progress in increasing the capabilities of WODs by
SOCBs.

4.    The Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed on the amount of
appropriations for providing financial support to Special SOEs under
the draft budget for fiscal year 1994.

5.    Progress in the execution of the Privatization Sub-program, as
measured by privatization targets therein set forth.

6.    The Privatization Law has been amended to facilitate the
carrying out of the Privatization Sub-program.

7.    Enactment of the Law on the creation of National Investment
Funds and their privatization.

8.    The Borrower has formally assigned ownership of SOEs to the
relevant Governmental agencies.

9.    The MOP 1993 Program of Organizational and Staffing
Strengthening has been carried out and the Borrower and the Bank
have agreed on a program of organizational and staffing
strengthening to be carried out by MOP in 1994.

10.   The Borrower has developed a medium-term program aimed at the
privatization of the banking system, including targets to attain its
objectives.

11.   Adequate progress in the execution of the Bank Supervision
Sub-program by NBP.

12.   The Borrower has provided financial assistance to Special SOEs
under the EBRP Sub-program in accordance with the 1993 Budget Law,
and the Intervention Decree.

13.   Adequate progress in the execution of the IDA Program of
Organizational and Staffing Strengthening - Phase I, and the
Borrower and the Bank have agreed on a second phase of such program
to be carried out by IDA in 1994.

14.   The Borrower has implemented measures ensuring that the
Specialized Banks will not cause disruptions in the execution of the
EBRP Sub-program.

                          SCHEDULE 6

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Adequate progress in the execution of the EBRP Sub-program as
provided in the EBRP Law, the EBRP Decree and the Intervention
Decree, including substantial compliance by the SOCBs and IDA with
the obligations and deadlines therein set forth and appropriate
monitoring of the SOCBs’ execution of the EBRP Sub-program by the
Monitoring Unit.

2.    Timely compliance by the Borrower of its obligations to
service the Recapitalization Bonds.

3.    The Borrower’s Budget Law for fiscal year 1994 has been
enacted, including appropriations, in amounts satisfactory to the
Bank, for providing assistance to Special SOEs under the EBRP Sub-
program.

4.    The Borrower has provided financial assistance to Special SOEs
under the EBRP Sub-program in accordance with the Borrower’s 1994
Budget Law, and the Intervention Decree.

5.    Progress in the execution of the Privatization Sub-program, as
measured by the privatization targets therein set forth.

6.    Progress in the execution of the Banking System Transformation
Sub-program and particularly in the privatization of SOCBs.

7.    NBP shall have carried out the Bank Supervision Sub-program in
accordance with its terms.

8.    Of those SOEs that have concluded conciliation procedures
pursuant to the EBRP Law about seventy percent have been converted
into joint stock companies and about thirty percent of such SOEs
have been either privatized or the share of the Borrower’s Treasury
in their capital stock has been reduced to less than fifty percent.

9.    Adequate progress in the execution of the MOP 1994 Program of
Organizational and Staffing Strengthening.

10.   Adequate progress in the execution of the IDA Program of
Organizational and Staffing Strengthening - Phase II.

11.   The MOF shall have contracted for full portfolio and financial
audits of the SOCBs as of December 31, 1993, and assessments of the
performance of the SOCBs of their obligations under the EBRP law and
the EBRP Decree, and shall have furnished to the Bank copies of such
audits and assessments, with the exception of the portfolio and
financial audits of SOCBs selected by the MOF for privatization in
1994.

