d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3612-KO

          (Environmental Research and Education Project)

                              between

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 30, 1993

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3612-KO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
                  which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
                  be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
                  III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agree-
                  ment."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "EERC" means the Environmental Education Review Committee
established within MOE for the purpose of reviewing and advising on
environmental science education in the Borrower’s agricultural and
veterinary college system;

      (b)   "ERAC" means the Environmental Research Advisory Commit-
tee established within MOE for the purpose of advising on issues
relating to research and environmental science in the Borrower’s
agricultural and veterinary college system;

      (c)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;

      (d)   "NICEM" means the National Instrumentation Center for
Environmental Management at Seoul National University; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Korea Exchange
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly

notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date speci-
                  fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning
                  with the Interest Period in which this Agreement
                  is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrow-
                  ings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                  excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as
                  the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
                  investments; and (B) loans which may be made by
                  the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                  determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates appli-
            cable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in

Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain NICEM, staffed by
qualified personnel in adequate numbers, and with structure, func-
tions, facilities and budget acceptable to the Bank and adequate to
enable NICEM to carry out its mandate of managing equipment and faci-
lities for research in environmental management, of providing support
to academic activities and of providing training and support for
utilizing the afore-mentioned equipment and facilities.

      Section 3.04. In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project the
Borrower shall cause NICEM to implement the overseas training program
and visiting experts program in accordance with a timetable agreed
by the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MOE, shall cause each of
EERC and ERAC: (a) to be maintained with structure, functions and
membership acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to hold its first meeting
by no later than September 30, 1993 and to hold subsequent meetings
at least once in each academic year thereafter and to hold additional
meetings as determined necessary or appropriate by the respective
chairpersons.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                  the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
                  dures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon, Korea

                  Cable address:          Telex:

                        MOF                     K 23243
                        Kwachon, Korea

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                  Cable address:          Telex:

                        INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),

                        Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC),
                                                64145 (WUI), or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                              REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                              By   /s/ Chung Gi Kim
                                         Authorized Representative

                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                              By    /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar             to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Equipment under           10,700,000      100% of foreign
      Part A (1) of the                         expenditures;
      Project                                   100% of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory cost)
                                                for locally manufactured
                                                equipment; and
                                                65% of local expendi-
                                                tures for other items
                                                procured locally

(2)   Library materials            100,000      100% of foreign
      under Part A (2)                          expenditures
      of the Project

(3)   Technical Assistance       1,500,000      100% of foreign
      under Part C (1) of                       expenditures
      the Project

(4)   Equipment under                           100% of foreign

      Part B of the                             expenditures;
      Project:                                  100% of local expen-
                                                ditures (ex-factory
      (a) for Agricul-          34,700,000      cost) for locally
          tural Colleges;                       manufactured equip-
          and                                   ment; and 65% of
                                                local expenditures
      (b) for Veterinary        13,000,000      for other items
          Colleges                              procured locally
                               »»»»»»»»»»»
      TOTAL                     60,000,000
                               èèèèèèèèèèè

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                     Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
upgrading the capacity of selected colleges of agriculture and
veterinary science by enhancing environmental research capacity and
improving environmentally-related teaching programs.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     NICEM

1.    Provision of research equipment and training in the use thereof
to enhance NICEM's capacity to undertake environmentally-related
research including soil and water pollution, waste management, and soil,
forest and watershed conservation.

2.    Provision of books, periodicals and journals for NICEM.

Part B:     National Agricultural and Veterinary Colleges

      Improvement in the quality of environmentally-related research
and teaching in selected national agricultural colleges and national
veterinary colleges through the provision of equipment.

Part C:     Institutional Strengthening and Overseas Training Program

1.    Carrying out of a training program by NICEM on environmental
research and education comprising about 70 overseas training fellow-
ships and visits of about 12 experts to give seminars advise on research
issues, review and advise on teaching programs.

2.    Review, assessment and advice on college environmental teaching
programs by EERC.

3.    Provision of advice on environmental research development, and
general environmental policy and review of resource allocation and
capacity for environmental research by ERAC.

                      *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30 1998.
                             SCHEDULE 3

                        Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

      On each April 15 and October 15

            beginning October 15, 1998           3,000,000
            through   April 15, 2008

_____________________________

*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                       Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to
be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time
of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years before            1.00
      maturity

                             SCHEDULE 4

                Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I    Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful

bidder’s bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two pre-
disclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Korea may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$10,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

2.    Library materials may be procured through direct contracting in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall
be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (b)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C (1) of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.

                             SCHEDULE 5

                           Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated

from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
                   as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                   other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                   this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                   of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis
                   of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
                   the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                   been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equiva-
lent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be

utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:

            (i)    was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                   eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
                   or

            (ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
                   Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
                   the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
                   the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
                   Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
                   refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount
                   of such payment or the portion thereof not so
                   eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
                   otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
                   the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
                   has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
                   refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the rele-
vant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

