d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3742 IND

                              Loan Agreement

                           (Dam Safety Project)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 22, 1994

                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3742 IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Dam Safety Commission" means the Borrower’s dam safety
commission established by Decree of the Minister of Public Works No.
98/KPTS/1993, and reporting to the Minister;

      (b)   "Dam Safety Unit" means the Borrower’s dam safety unit
established by Decree of the Minister of Public Works No. 98/KPTS/1993;

      (c)   "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works;

      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April
1 and ending March 31; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
fifty five million dollars ($55,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank

shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Public
Works with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering, environmental and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and

to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and other
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                                Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures

                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)       Civil works              35,900,000       55%

(2)       Equipment                   600,000       100% of foreign
          and materials                             expenditures,
          (except                                   100% of local
          vehicles)                                 expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 65%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally

(3)       Training                  1,200,000       100%

(4)       Engineering               7,200,000       100%
          services

(5)       Consultants’              4,600,000       100%
          services

(6)       Unallocated               5,500,000
                                   ----------

          TOTAL                    55,000,000

2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement.

4.        The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts
for goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, contracts for works not
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent, contracts for the employment of consulting
firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and contracts for the employment
of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objective of the Project is to reduce the risk of dam failures in
Indonesia.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

PART A: Dam Safety Institutions

1.  Establishment of a central dam monitoring unit in DGWRD.

2.  Establishment of dam monitoring units at the provincial level, and
establishment of dam monitoring units for the Ministry of Public Works’
Jatiluhur, Bengawan Solo, and Brantas dam schemes.

3.  Provision of technical assistance to the Dam Safety Commission, the Dam

Safety Unit, and the units referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, and
provision of office space, office and field equipment, and transport to the
Dam Safety Unit and the units referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above.

4.  Provision of training, workshops and seminars to members of the Dam
Safety Commission and staff of the Ministry of Public Works involved in the
dam safety program, and provision of related equipment and materials.

PART B: Basic Safety Facilities

    Provision of the following basic safety facilities and services to dams
where such facilities and services are required, including technical
assistance:

    (a)   Carrying out of a survey of the dam and associated structures to
          obtain information for detailed inspection;

    (b)   Provision of communications equipment and facilities;

    (c)   Provision of instrumentation to improve recording of basic data
          relevant to the safe operation of the dam;

    (d)   Clearing of the dam and surrounding area to allow detailed
          inspection of the dam and associated structures; and

    (e)   Carrying out of emergency actions to ensure the safety of the dam
          and associated structures.

PART C: Remedial Works

    Carrying out of remedial works at dams where detailed inspections have
identified the need for such works and where detailed designs have been
completed, including provision of technical assistance.

PART D: Project Management

1.  Establishment of a central Project management unit, and provision of
office facilities, equipment, and transport.

2.  Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of technical
audits of activities under Parts B and C of the Project.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

    December 15, 1999                    1,040,000
    June 15, 2000                        1,080,000
    December 15, 2000                    1,120,000
    June 15, 2001                        1,160,000
    December 15, 2001                    1,200,000
    June 15, 2002                        1,245,000
    December 15, 2002                    1,290,000
    June 15, 2003                        1,340,000
    December 15, 2003                    1,385,000
    June 15, 2004                        1,435,000
    December 15, 2004                    1,490,000
    June 15, 2005                        1,545,000
    December 15, 2005                    1,600,000
    June 15, 2006                        1,655,000
    December 15, 2006                    1,720,000
    June 15, 2007                        1,780,000
    December 15, 2007                    1,845,000
    June 15, 2008                        1,910,000
    December 15, 2008                    1,980,000

    June 15, 2009                        2,055,000
    December 15, 2009                    2,130,000
    June 15, 2010                        2,205,000
    December 15, 2010                    2,285,000
    June 15, 2011                        2,370,000
    December 15, 2011                    2,455,000
    June 15, 2012                        2,545,000
    December 15, 2012                    2,635,000
    June 15, 2013                        2,730,000
    December 15, 2013                    2,830,000
    June 15, 2014                        2,940,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A: International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in

paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b) In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10
of the Guidelines.

Part B: Preference for Domestic Contractors

    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.  Civil works at dams, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000 per
dam, may be carried out by force account.

3.  Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Part, equipment shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.  Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of prequalification:

    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and each contract for equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that

the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

1.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later
than May 31, 1995, issue operational guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, for
the Dam Safety Commission and the Dam Safety Unit.

2.  In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall by January 15, 1995,
procure the following technical assistance and engineering services in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement:

    (a)   consultants for institutional strengthening and training; and

    (b)   engineering services for construction supervision of the Jatiluhur
          Dam remedial works.

3.  In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:

    (a)   take measures to avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement of
          individuals;

    (b)   where displacement of individuals is unavoidable, the Borrower
          shall, before carrying out remedial works:

          (i)   prepare a resettlement plan for said individuals in
                accordance with policies, planning principles,
                institutional arrangements and design criteria agreed with
                the Bank, designed to improve the living standards of said

                individuals;

          (ii)  furnish the resettlement plan referred to in sub-paragraph
                (i) hereof to the Bank for approval; and

          (iii) take all measures necessary to ensure that said individuals
                shall be resettled in accordance with the resettlement plan
                approved by the Bank.

4.  In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:

    (a)   not later than September 30 in each year, commencing November 30,
1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments a work program and cost
estimates of Project activities to be carried out during the following
Fiscal Year; and, thereafter, carry out such work program taking into
account the comments of the Bank thereon; and

    (b)   not later than December 31 in each year, commencing December 31,
1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments the budget proposals for
the following Fiscal Year’s work program, taking into account the cost
estimates for such work program; and, thereafter, promptly finalize said
budget taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

5.  The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required for the Project in
accordance with a schedule and time table acceptable to the Bank.

6.  In carrying out Part D.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

    (a)   not later than June 1, 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, the terms of reference and proposed organizational arrangements
for the carrying out of technical audits of the Project activities under
Parts B and C of the Project;

    (b)   cause technical audits to be carried out annually, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, during the implementation of the Project, commencing
not later than April 1, 1996; and

    (c)   annually, commencing not later than October 1, 1996, furnish to
the Bank for comments a copy of such audits.

7.  The Borrower shall:

    (a)   not later than April 1, 1997, establish a national dam safety
regulatory agency with jurisdiction over all dams within the Borrower’s
territory; and

    (b)   not later than March 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank for comments,
a proposal for a funding structure for the operation of such agency, and
thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan, taking into account the
comments of the Bank thereon.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:

    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.        (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

