d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3724 RO

                              Loan Agreement

                        (Education Reform Project)

                                  between

                                  ROMANIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated May 23, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3724 RO

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1994, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;

    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
          Articles of Agreement."

    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

    (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
    (b)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, or any successor
thereto;

    (c)   "Project Operating Manual" means the Borrower’s manual setting
forth the criteria and guidelines for the carrying out and operations of the
Project, dated December 17, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank; and

    (d)   "CPD" means Casa Personalului Didactic (Teacher Training Centers),
maintained by the Borrower in the relevant administrative subdivisions of
Romania for the purpose of support of the professional development of
teachers.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank

shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.

          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.

          (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.

    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."

                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and
managerial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

    (b)   The Borrower shall:

          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and

          (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.

    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;

          (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
                and

          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the Project
Coordination Unit referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement has been established with staff and other resources and terms of
reference as provided in said paragraph.

    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          17 Apolodor Street
          Bucharest, Romania

                                         Telex:

                                                 11239

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                       ROMANIA

                       By /s/ Vasile Puscas
                       Authorized Representative

                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                       By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                       Acting Regional Vice President
                       Europe and Central Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated          % of

                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)     Goods                     30,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
    (a) For Part A(5)                500,000        100% of local
        of the Project                              expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
    (b) For all other             30,000,000        cost) and 95%
        parts of the                                of local expen-
        Project                                     ditures for other
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally

(2)     Consultants’              13,500,000        100%
    services,
    studies,
    research and
    training

    (a) For Part A(5)              1,500,000
        of the Project

    (b) For all other             12,000,000
        parts of the
        Project

(3)     Incremental                1,000,000        100%
    operating costs

(4)     Unallocated                5,000,000
                                 ___________

        TOTAL                     50,000,000
                                 ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and

    (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs, other than
salaries related to the project management, including supplies, other
consumables, support for dissemination of project related materials,
postage, telephone and administrative expenses.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for:

    (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and

    (b)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) (a)
and 2 (a) on account  of  payments  made for expenditures under Part A (5)
of the Project until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence of the
establishment by the Borrower of the Council for Occupational Standards and
Assessment, referred to in Section 5 (b) of Part A of Schedule 2.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to restructure and improve pre-
university (basic and secondary) education in accordance with the Borrower’s
strategy for the reform of its education sector.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time

to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Basic and Secondary Education

(1)       Preparation, validation and implementation of curriculum programs
for grades 1 through 12.

(2)       Development and carrying out of a program to: (a) upgrade pre-
service teacher training, including strengthening of training of primary
school teachers in universities; (b) strengthen existing CPDs; and (c)
introduce expanded utilization of computers in classrooms on a pilot basis.

(3)       Establishment and operation of a National Board of Curriculum and
Teacher Training, with an administrative secretariat, to be responsible for
the development and carrying out of the programs under subparts (1) and (2)
of this Part of the Project.

(4)       Carrying out a program for: (a) the development, and application
of national standards and performance criteria for basic and general
secondary education; and (b) the establishment and operation of a National
Assessment and Examination Board, a National Assessment and Examinations
Service and four affiliated specialist assessment working groups to be
responsible for the development and application of such standards and
criteria.

(5)       (a) Development and implementation of revised occupational
standards and certification practices; and (b) establishment, equipping and
staffing of a Council for Occupational Standards and Assessment, including
a documentation and records center, to be responsible for the development
and implementation of said standards and practices.

(6)       Carrying out a program for:  (a) the development, under
competitively awarded contracts to publishers, of upgraded textbooks which
meet the requirements of the new curriculum to be validated under subpart
(1) of this Part and the printing and distribution to schools of the
textbooks so developed under arrangement whereby schools receive budgetary
ceilings calculated on a student per capita basis for the selection and
purchase of such textbooks; and (b)  establishment and operation of a
Textbooks Approval Board, supported by a secretariat and about 12 textbook
selection panels, to be responsible for supervising the development of
textbooks.

(7)       Provision of technical assistance, administrative support,
training and equipment and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of
this Part of the Project.

Part B:   Education Financing and Management

(1)        Development and implementation of an improved formula for
budgetary allocation in pre-university education.

(2)       Development of the capacity of school inspectorates and  school
administrative staff in financial management.

(3)       Development and application of a school monitoring and performance
improvement system.

(4)       Designation and operation of regional resource centers at five of
the existing CPDs to provide support to educators and other staff involved
in the delivery of education.

(5)       Carrying out of studies, local workshops and pilot trials to
formulate and test policies for resource mobilization in education.

(6)       Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment and
materials to be utilized in carrying out this Part of the Project.

Part C:

(1)       Development and implementation of policies and procedures designed
to provide for the efficient planning and carrying out of Project
activities, including through the establishment and maintenance of a Project

Coordination Unit and a Steering Committee to coordinate and supervise
Project execution.
(2)       Provision of technical assistance, office equipment and materials
and vehicles to be utilized in the carrying out of this Part of the Project.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1999                                 935,000
May 1, 2000                                      970,000
November 1, 2000                               1,005,000
May 1, 2001                                    1,045,000
November 1, 2001                               1,080,000
May 1, 2002                                    1,120,000
November 1, 2002                               1,165,000
May 1, 2003                                    1,205,000
November 1, 2003                               1,250,000
May 1, 2004                                    1,300,000
November 1, 2004                               1,345,000
May 1, 2005                                    1,395,000
November 1, 2005                               1,450,000
May 1, 2006                                    1,500,000
November 1, 2006                               1,560,000
May 1, 2007                                    1,615,000
November 1, 2007                               1,675,000
May 1, 2008                                    1,740,000
November 1, 2008                               1,800,000
May 1, 2009                                    1,870,000
November 1, 2009                               1,940,000
May 1, 2010                                    2,010,000
November 1, 2010                               2,085,000
May 1, 2011                                    2,165,000
November 1, 2011                               2,245,000
May 1, 2012                                    2,325,000
November 1, 2012                               2,415,000
May 1, 2013                                    2,505,000
November 1, 2013                               2,595,000
May 1, 2014                                    2,690,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not
    more than 18 years
    before maturity                            0.90

More than 18 years before
    maturity                                   1.00

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A. (1) hereof, goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Items or groups of items estimated  to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of the equivalent of
$23,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on  the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of three
price quotations obtained from a list of qualified suppliers, acceptable to
the Bank from at least three eligible source countries as defined under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or

less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.  Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more awarded in accordance with Section I, C, 4
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.  Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded to
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants’ Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank, to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, and to 20 contracts for Part A (5)
of the Project, selected for review by the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

1.  Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Project shall be
assigned by the Borrower to MOE. For this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure
that MOE: (a) shall carry out the project in accordance with the

requirements and other details set forth or referred to in the Project
Operating Manual; (b) shall establish and maintain a Project Coordination
Unit, with staff and other resources and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, to supervise the carrying out of the Project and the procurement
of the goods and services therefor; and (c) shall maintain, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, an education sector Steering Committee,
comprising representatives of MOE’s Technical Departments and reporting
directly to the Borrower’s Minister of Education, to coordinate the
activities under the Project of MOE’s Technical Departments and to provide
policy guidance in the carrying out of the Project.

2.  The Borrower shall: (a) employ or cause to be employed consultants, with
qualifications and terms of reference and in accordance with a time schedule
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the carrying out of the Project; (b)
ensure that all such qualified management and staff in adequate numbers as
agreed with the Bank shall be made available and thereafter maintained as
required for the efficient carrying out of the Project and thereafter for
sustaining the objectives thereof; and (c) ensure that the external and
local training under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with
programs and criteria for the selection of candidates thereunder
satisfactory to the Bank.

3.  In order to facilitate the achievement of the objectives of  Part A (6)
of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the development of upgraded
textbooks thereunder shall not be contracted to any publishers which are
beneficiaries of budgetary subsidies from the Borrower.

4.  In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and the
criteria and guidelines set forth in the Project Operating Manual, the
Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, by March 31 and
September 1 of each year, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the six-month period preceding the date of such report, as measured pursuant
to indicators agreed with the Bank, and the resources required and the
measures recommended to provide for the continued efficient carrying out of
the Project, and taking the Bank’s views on the matter and based on the
conclusions and recommendations of such report, take all the measures,
including allocation of resources, required to ensure such efficient
carrying out of the Project; and (b) review with and prepare, pursuant to
terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, in
November 1996, a report integrating available data on the progress in
achieving the objectives of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
achievement of the objectives of the Project for the period following said
report, and, thereafter, take all measures which, in the opinion of the
Bank, are required to achieve said objectives.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3),
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special

Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further

payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

