d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3740 EE

                              Loan Agreement

                 (District Heating Rehabilitation Project)

                                  between

                            REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated May 27, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3740 EE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the European Investment Bank (the EIB) is considering making a
loan (the EIB Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to approximately $5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions to be set forth in a Loan Agreement (the EIB
Loan Agreement);

      (C)   the Swedish Government through its agency BITS (BITS) has agreed
to extend a credit (the BITS Credit) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to approximately $10,000,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in a
credit agreement (the BITS Credit Agreement); and

      (D)   Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by the Municipality
of Tallinn, Part B.2 by the Municipality of Tartu; Part B.3 by the
Municipality of Parnu; Part C will be carried out by Eesti Energia; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the

foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date
herewith between the Bank and Eesti Energia, Tallinn and Tartu;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

      (a)   "EE" means Eesti Energia, established by Decree No. 182
(September 12, 1991) and Written Order No. 159 (September 26, 1991) by the
Borrower’s Ministry of Industry and Energy;

      (b)   "EE Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
Eesti Energia (EE) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (c)   "EE Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (d)   "EE Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and EE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

      (f)   "MOF Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Special Account" means the EE Special Account, the MOF Special
Account, the Tallinn Special Account, or the Tartu Special Account as the
case may be;

      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the EE Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Tallinn Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Tartu Subsidiary
Loan Agreement as the case may be;

      (i)   "Tallinn" means the Municipality of Tallinn;

      (j)   "Tallinn Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Tallinn of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
said Project Agreement;

      (k)   "Tallinn Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (l)   "Tallinn Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and Tallinn pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this

Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (m)   "Tartu" means the Municipality of Tartu;

      (n)   "Tartu Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Tartu of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
said Project Agreement;

      (o)   "Tartu Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (p)   "Tartu Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and Tartu pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to said Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
thirty-eight million four hundred thousand dollars ($38,400,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars four special deposit accounts, the EE
Special Account, the MOF Special Account, the Tallinn Special Account, and
the Tartu Special Account, each in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end:

            (i)   shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts A, D.1
                  and D.6 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
                  and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
                  financial practices and shall provide, promptly as
                  needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources required for such Parts of the Project,
                  including, without limitation on the foregoing,
                  maintaining project management arrangements satisfactory
                  to the Bank; and

            (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                  obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
                  cause EE, Tallinn and Tartu to perform all their
                  respective obligations set forth in their respective
                  Project Agreements, shall take or cause to be taken all
                  actions, including the provision of funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources, necessary or appropriate,
                  to enable each of EE, Tallinn and Tartu to perform such
                  obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
                  action which would prevent or interfere with such
                  performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
to EE, Tallinn and Tartu under subsidiary loan agreements entered into
between the Borrower and EE, Tallinn and Tartu under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, D.1 and
D.6 of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement. Without limitation on the foregoing: (a) the Borrower shall
ensure that only sub-loans meeting criteria satisfactory to the Bank are
approved; and (b) the studies and advisory services referred to in Schedule
2, Part D.1 shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts B.1, B.2, and C of the Project shall be
carried out by Tallinn, Tartu, and EE respectively pursuant to Section 2.03
of the respective Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause its Ministry of
Environment to carry out, environmental mitigation and monitoring plans
satisfactory to the Bank, including without limitation guidelines for
harvesting and managing peat and wood fuels resources.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Parts A, D.1 and D.6 of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the MOF
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has

                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control
over the setting of tariffs of EE, to establish tariffs for the heat-only
operations of EE’s Iru Power Plant which would allow such power plant, under
conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity
utilization, to cover its costs of production, operations and maintenance,
depreciation, interest and make a reasonable contribution to reserves.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   EE, Tallinn and Tartu shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the relevant Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that EE, Tallinn or Tartu will be able to perform their
respective obligations under the relevant Project Agreement.

      (c)   The governing statutes of EE, Tallinn and Tartu shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of EE, Tallinn or Tartu to perform any of its
obligations under the EE, Tallinn or Tartu Project Agreement respectively.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EE or for
the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   The EIB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1994, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      (f)   The BITS Credit Agreement shall have failed to become effective
by December 31, 1994, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provision of this paragraph shall not appply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      (g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms thereof, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
                  that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                  to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
                  and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
                  the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
                  this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this Agreement
shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and EE, Tallinn and Tartu; and

      (b)   the BITS Credit Agreement and the EIB Loan Agreement shall have
been signed.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the respective Project Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by EE, Tallinn and Tartu and are legally binding upon EE,
Tallinn and Tartu respectively in accordance with their respective terms;
and

      (b)   that the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EE, Tallinn and Tartu
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and EE, Tallinn and
Tartu respectively in accordance with their respective terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            1 Suur-Ameerika
            EE00100 Tallinn

            Estonia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                                          173106 PLAAN SU

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA

                        By /s/ Toomas Ilves
                        Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                        Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)     Goods:

    (a) for Part B.1              15,779,500        100% of foreign
        of the Project                              expenditures
        (Tallinn DH
        improvements)

    (b) for Part C of              4,275,000        100% of foreign
        the Project                                 expenditures
        (Iru Power Plant)

    (c) for Part D of                323,000        100% of foreign
        the Project                                 expenditures

        (Office equipment,
        computers, software)

(2)     Goods and installation:

    (a) for Part A.1               3,097,000        100% of foreign
        of the Project                              expenditures
        (Small boiler                               and 85% of local
        conversions)                                expenditures

    (b) for Part A.2 of            4,379,500        100% of foreign
        the Project                                 expenditures
        (Small boiler                               and 85% of local
        replacements)                               expenditures

    (c) for Part B.2 (a)           5,301,000        100% of foreign
        of the Project                              and 45% of local
        (Tartu Luunja                               expenditures
        boiler conversions)

(3)     Works:

    (a) for Part B.1               2,726,500        70% of local
        of the Project                              expenditures
        (Tallinn DH
        improvements)

    (b) for repair of                342,000        100% of foreign
        air preheater                               expenditures
        in Part C of
        the Project
        (Iru Power Plant)

    (c) for Part C of                256,500        45% of local
        the Project (Iru                            expenditures
        Power Plant) other
        than (3) (b) above

(4)     Unallocated                1,920,000
                                   __________

        TOTAL                     38,400,000
                                   ==========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $3,800,000 may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after April 15, 1994.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods, works and services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project, in support of the Borrower’s energy
policy, are to reduce fuel costs and import requirements, to bring about
energy conservation and increased efficiency and economy of major district
heating systems, to improve environmental conditions in affected areas, and
to support the strengthening and restructuring of district heating
enterprises and the development of the Borrower’s energy sector.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program

1.  Conversion of about 125 MW of small boilers to local fuels, mainly peat
and wood chips.

2.  Replacement of about 20 MW of small and medium-sized boilers to local
fuels, mainly peat and wood chips.

Part B:   District Heating Rehabilitation Program

1.  Tallinn -- Improving efficiency of oil-fired boilers, replacing old
pipelines and ventilation of concrete culverts; installing control equipment
for large substations, improving water treatment, installing variable speed
pumps and remote control, maintenance equipment and spare parts, new
pipeline connection, installing equipment including heat meters in about
1,050 substations, and providing related engineering services and office and
other equipment.

2.  Tartu -- (a) Conversion of two oil and gas-fired boilers at Luunja
Boiler House to local fuels and providing related engineering services and
office and other equipment; and (b) conversion of three oil and gas-fired
boilers at Ropka Boiler House to local fuels and installing wood chipping
equipment, replacement of old pipelines, improving water treatment and the
efficiency of boilers, installing equipment including heat meters in about
640 substations, maintenance equipment and spare parts, new pipeline
connection and related engineering services and office and other equipment.

3.  Parnu -- Conversion of two oil and gas-fired boilers to local fuels and
installing wood chipping equipment; replacing old pipelines, installing
equipment including heat meters in about 160 substations, improving water
treatment, installing variable speed pumps and a control and regulation
system, and providing related engineering services and office and other
equipment.

Part C:   Iru (CHP, Tallinn) Power Plant Improvement

    Repair of air preheater for one steam boiler, improving water treatment,
installation of automation and measurement equipment and variable speed
pumps, and providing related engineering services and office and other
equipment.

Part D:   Institutional Support Program

1.  Provision of consultancy and advisory services to assist with
disbursement and procurement requirements of the Project; to assist with
heat planning in municipalities; and to assist with development of the legal
and regulatory framework of the energy sector, including related training
and the provision of office equipment, computers and software.

2.  Tallinn -- Provision of consultancy and advisory services  to
restructure the Tallinn district heating companies, including training and
the provision of related office equipment, computers and software.

3.        Tartu -- Provision of consultancy and advisory services to
restructure the Tartu district heating companies, including training and the
provision of related office equipment, computers and software.

4.  Parnu -- Provision of consultancy and advisory services to carry out a
review of the requirements for strengthening the management systems of the
Parnu district heating company, including training and the provision of
related office equipment, computers and software.

5.  Eesti Energia -- Training and provision of related office equipment,
computers and software.

6.  Ministry of Environment and local environmental departments -- provision
of advisory services to develop training programs and to train local teams,
including provision of related materials, for an in-country training program
in environmental management, and a limited number of study tours to
neighboring countries and to review environmental management practice.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

    beginning February 1, 2000           1,920,000
    through February 1, 2009

and on August 1, 2009                    1,920,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:

Not more than three years                      0.20

    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity

More than 13 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Estonia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Turnkey contracts for small boiler conversions estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or more, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,800,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).

2.  Items or groups of items for office equipment and materials estimated
to cost less than $50,000 per item or group, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $140,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

3.  Small turnkey contracts for boiler conversions estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $480,000,

may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for small boiler replacements and
the first four contracts for small boiler conversions, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                             Special Accounts

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b), (1) (c),
(3) (b) and (3) (c) in the case of the EE Special Account, Categories (1)
(c), (2) (a) and (2) (b) in the case of the MOF Special Account, Categories
(1) (a), (1) (c) and (3) (a) in the case of the Tallinn Special Account and
Category (1) (c) and (2) (c) in the case of the Tartu Special Account, as
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$400,000 in the case of the EE Special Account, an amount equivalent to
$400,000 in the case of the MOF Special Account, an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 in the case of the Tallinn Special Account and an amount
equivalent to $400,000 in the case of the Tartu Special Account to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the relevant Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the

basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the relevant Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall
                furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into such Special
                Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such
                amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                have been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                have been paid out of such Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the relevant Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
furtherwithdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in such
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into such Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)

of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

