d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                          CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3759 GA

                              Loan Agreement

                         (Economic Recovery Loan)

                                  between

                           THE GABONESE REPUBLIC

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 23, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3759 GA

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1994, between THE GABONESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

    WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 26, 1994, from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower’s economy and equitable
social development (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution; and

    (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided;

    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications
thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement:

    (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

          "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that may be
    financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of
    Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

    (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
    later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
    the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
    of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
    on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
    Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
    respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
    of the purposes of the Loan.";

    (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

    (d)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
    Agreement."

    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

    (a)   "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Cooperation Financiere
en Afrique Centrale, the currency of the Borrower; and

    (b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3) published by the United Nations in Statistical
Papers, Series M, No 34 Rev. 3 (1986).

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.

    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount

outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.

         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.

        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.

    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."

                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                           Particular Covenants

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program.

    (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

    Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)   The Borrower shall:

          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and

        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.

    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;

         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                documents) evidencing such expenditures;

        (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
                and

         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.

                                ARTICLE IV

                      Additional Event of Suspension

    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

In accordance with the Program, the Borrower shall have:

    (a)   enacted its Loi de Finance rectificative for 1994 which contains,
inter alia, the regulations referred to in paragraphs 16 (a),(b) and (c);
18; and 19 of the Program, concerning:

          (i)   the establishment of customs tariffs for imports which

                correspond to the four categories of export tariffs
                stipulated in Act No. 7/93 UDEAC 566 SE1 of June 21, 1993;

         (ii)   the abolishment of customs exemptions granted by: (A) its
                Code des Investissements (Loi No. 7/89 of July 6, 1989), as
                well as (B) specific regulations;

        (iii)   the abolishment of export duties, excluding payments for
                wood, and mining and oil products; and

         (iv)   the budget provisions referring to the investment budget
                and the current budget of the public health and national
                education sectors;

    (b)   enacted laws or promulgated regulations which contain the elements
set out in paragraph 16, subparagraphs (d) and (e); and in paragraph 17,
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of the Program, relating to:

          (i)   the elimination of: (A) quantitative restrictions in the
                importation of: edible oils,  potable water, cement, and
                soaps, as well as (B) the obligation to obtain licences
                prior to any import or export;

         (ii)   the elimination of price and margin controls on the four
                goods referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph;

        (iii)   the modification of tariffs pertaining to petroleum
                products as set out in paragraph 17 (a) of the Program; and

         (iv)   the adjustment of taxes levied upon petroleum products
                destined for the domestic market in order to stabilize ad
                interim the prices prevailing on January 11, 1994, as set
                out in paragraph 17 (b) of the Program; and

    (c)   restructured its electricity tariff agreed on in the context of
the Convention de Concession de Service Public concluded on August 10, 1993,
as stipulated in paragraph 17 (e) of the Program.

    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

          Ministere des Finances, du Budget
            et des Participations
          B.P. 165
          Libreville, Gabon

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                GOECOFIN                   5238
                Libreville

    Copy to:

          Ministere de l’Economie, de la Planification,
             du Redressement du Secteur
             Para-public et de la Privatisation
          B.P. 172
          Libreville, Gabon

          Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
          B.P. 912
          Libreville, Gabon

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                       THE GABONESE REPUBLIC

                       By /s/ Fidele Nguembi
                                                Authorized Representative

                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa

                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the
Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

    (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

       112                --          Alcoholic beverages

       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured; tobacco
                                      refuse

       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)

       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials

       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                      worked

       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                      nuclear reactors

       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery

       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                      wares (including set gems)

       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)

    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied
from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country, expenditures in such currency for
goods supplied from the territory of such other country;

    (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after January 12, 1994;

    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than
$5,000 equivalent;

    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.        Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement
of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be required by the Bank
upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15           $1,500,000.00

    beginning December 15, 1999
    through June 15, 2009.

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.20
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                              0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity

More than 13 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 3
                                Procurement
1.        Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:

    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:

    "2.8 Notification and Advertising

          The international community should be notified in a timely manner
    of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
    to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list, to apply for
    prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at
    least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower’s country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:

          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
                Forum, Business Edition; or

         (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
                journal of wide international circulation; or

        (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries and
                territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                potential suppliers of the goods required."

    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:

          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
    bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
    international trade and specified in the bidding documents."

    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

    (d)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.        Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public procurement
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures,
provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank;
and

    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial
practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of
evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least
two countries, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the
Bank may be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines.

3.        With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

4.        With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.

5.        The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

