d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3757 RU

                              Loan Agreement

            (Agriculture Reform Implementation Support Project)

                                  between

                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 22, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3757 RU

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                            General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this

Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Agency Bank" means any commercial bank selected by the Borrower
in accordance with, and for the purposes referred to in, Section 3.02 (a)
(i) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "On-lending Procedures, Terms and Conditions" means the
procedures, eligibility criteria, terms and conditions of Private Sub-
projects referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Participating Region" means with respect to any Part of the
Project which involves activities intended to be carried out in particular
regions of the Borrower which are subjects of the Federation, or in
particular administrative subdivisions thereof (rayons), a region which has
formally consented, in the manner described in paragraph 5 of Part A of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to participate in such Part or otherwise
cooperate in carrying out such activities under the Project;

      (d)   "Private Enterprise" means any legal entity to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a) (ii) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Private Sub-project" means a specific development project under
Parts A.2 or C.1 of the Project which is intended to be carried out by a
Private Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (f)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Public Investment Sub-project" means any development project,
investment or other specifically defined activity under Parts A.1, A.3, B
or C.2 of the Project which is intended to be carried out through a Public
Project Entity utilizing a portion of the proceeds of the Loan;

      (h)   "Public Project Entity" means any of the departments,
institutes, agencies or affiliates which may be designated pursuant to
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, which the Borrower intends to engage for
the carrying out, as a Public Investment Sub-project, of any of the Parts
of the Project referred to in such section;

      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;

      (j)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Private Enterprise for a
Private Sub-project;
      (k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement between the
Borrower and a Private Enterprise, entered into pursuant to subparagraph (a)
(ii) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, concerning the financing of a
Private Sub-project utilizing the proceeds of the Loan, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (l)   "PCC" means the project coordinating committee referred to in
paragraph A.4 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;

      (m)   "PDU" means the project development unit referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;

      (n)   "MOAF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food;

      (o)   "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

      (p)   "ARSRIIMA" means the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute
of Innovation and Marketing in Agriculture;

      (q)   "Gosseminspektsia" means the Federal Seed Inspection Service of
the Borrower;

      (r)   "AKKOR" means the Association of Peasant Farms and Cooperatives
of Russia;

      (s)   "Gossortkomissia" means the Seed Variety Registration Agency of
the Borrower;

      (t)   "NSAC" means the National Seed Advisory Committee to be
established under Part C.2 of the Project;

      (u)   "NSA" means the National Seed Association to be established
under Part C.2 of the Project; and

      (v)   "Computer Center of MOAF" means the state enterprise "Glavnyi
Vychislitelnyi Tsentr (GVTs) Minselkhozproda," organized and operated by
MOAF under Resolution No. 142 of MOAF of November 1990.
                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
two hundred forty million dollars ($240,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) by a Private Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Private Sub-project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) amounts paid
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
expenditures made by a Public Project Entity to meet the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Public Investment Sub-project in respect
of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (iii)
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) by the
Borrower in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank under
selection criteria, terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate

applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, A.3, B and C.2 of the Project
through MOAF, and with the assistance of the respective Public Project
Entities set forth in the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement and other
designated Public Project Entities, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural,
engineering, accounting, information technology and environmental standards
and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   For the purpose of carrying out Parts A.1, A.3, B and C.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to each of the designated Public

Project Entities responsible for carrying out a Public Investment Sub-
project under any of such Parts of the Project, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such Public Investment Sub-
project, including the corresponding portions of the proceeds of the Loan,
under contractual or other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, and except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A.2 and C.1
of the Project, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   select, in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
                  Bank, one or more commercial banks (the Agency Banks)
                  capable of administering the Sub-loans;

           (ii)   make available to each Private Enterprise, out of the
                  proceeds of the Loan allocated from to time to Category
                  (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
                  to this Agreement, the amount of financing required for
                  its respective Private Sub-project under a subsidiary
                  loan agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be
                  entered into between the Borrower and the Private
                  Enterprise (together with any agreement with the Agency
                  Bank, providing for the administration of such Sub-loan),
                  under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
                  which shall include, without limitation, the terms and
                  conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 7 to this
                  Agreement; and

          (iii)   cause the Private Enterprises to perform in accordance
                  with the provisions of the respective Subsidiary Loan
                  Agreements, all the obligations set forth therein.

      (b)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Private Sub-projects will be selected and approved in accordance
with the procedures and eligibility criteria set forth or referred to in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to the Sub-
loans in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.

      Section 3.03. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish, or cause to be established, and
thereafter maintain, with membership, staff and other resources, and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   a project development unit (PDU) within MOAF responsible for,
inter alia, various administrative functions relating to the day-to-day
coordination and execution of the Project; and

      (b)   component implementation units (CIU) within each of MOAF’s
departments and agencies under its administrative jurisdiction responsible
for carrying out Parts A, B, and C of the Project, respectively, and within
the respective administration of each Participating Region under Parts A.2
and C.1 of the Project.

      Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall for purposes of the Project:

      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank an account (the Project
Account), in local currency, to be used for ensuring a secure source of
financing for the expenditures required to be made by MOAF in conjunction
with the implementation of the Project and the establishment and maintenance
of the necessary facilities for the carrying out of the Project, including
for the Public Investment Sub-projects; and

      (b)   for each fiscal year during the execution of the Project, make
appropriate budgetary allocations to replenish such Project Account and
ensure availability of adequate resources for the financing of expenditures
by MOAF during the coming fiscal year, in an amount satisfactory to the
Bank.

      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, during the
execution of the Private Sub-projects under Part C.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall not provide any direct or indirect subsidies on prices of
domestic and imported corn and sunflower seed and shall not impose any
administrative controls and regulations on the sale of corn and sunflower
seed or on prices thereof at all levels of government.

      Section 3.07. During the execution of the Private Sub-projects under
Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall not impose, and shall ensure
that the Participating Regions do not impose, any administrative controls
regulating the price levels or quantities of fruits and vegetables being
transacted in the wholesale and retail trade in such Participating Regions.

      Section 3.08. For purposes of ensuring the recovery of incremental
operating costs and financing a portion of capital costs relating to Parts
A.1, B.1, B.2 and C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   by December 31, 1995, prepare and implement a schedule of fees
satisfactory to the Bank to be charged to users of information provided by
Public Project Entities under Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and C.2 of the Project;

      (b)   by December 31, 1996, implement fee-for-service and other
appropriate cost recovery measures satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (c)   by December 31, 1996, establish, and thereafter operate in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, a ruble account from resources collected
by way of fees and other cost recovery measures.

      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out technical assistance activities included in the
Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, when
applicable, shall include specific programs or plans of action to meet the
objectives of the Project;

      (b)   promptly after the completion of each technical assistance
activity, furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations
including such programs or plans of action; and

      (c)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of actions.
      Section 3.10. Regarding the training programs to be carried out under
the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each such
program as well as the schedule for its implementation;

      (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training program in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   not later than September 30 of each year, exchange views with
the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the following
calendar year; and

      (d)   furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training program and
the benefits to be derived therefrom.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of and
expenditures related to the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and of the
Public Project Entities responsible for carrying out the Project or any Part
thereof.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01
                  of this Agreement, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  sound auditing standards consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
                  said records, accounts and financial statements and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  Section 4.01 of this Agreement, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least two years after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in respect of any repayments of principal and interest to be made by
the Private Enterprises under their respective Sub-loans:

      (a)   open, by the date on which it shall receive the first such
repayment, and thereafter maintain, in a bank acceptable to the Bank, a
separate account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (b)   upon the receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the
said separate account. All amounts to be so credited shall be utilized, to
the extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower’s repayment
obligations under this Agreement, exclusively to finance similar Private
Sub-projects acceptable to the Bank on similar terms and conditions as those
applicable to the respective portions of the Sub-loans so repaid and
credited to the said separate account.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the On-lending
Procedures, Terms and Conditions shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner that materially and adversely
affects the Project.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that suitably qualified persons have been appointed to positions
within the PDU to carry out, under terms of reference and other conditions
of employment satisfactory to the Bank, the following functional assignments
or capacities relating to the implementation of the Project: project
management, accounting, procurement and technical specialists for each of
Parts A, B and C of the Project;

      (b)   that each of the component implementation units (CIUs) within
the departments and agencies of MOAF, and in at least two Participating
Regions under each of Parts A.2 and C.1 of the Project, as referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, have been established, and each of their
directors have been appointed; and

      (c)   that the Project Account has been opened with an initial deposit
in rubles equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000).

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            103097 Moscow
            Ilyinka, 9
            Russian Federation

                                          Telex:

                                            112008

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                        By /s/ Aleksandr N. Shokhin
                        Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                        Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
 Category                     Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)       Turnkey contracts         76,000,000      100%
          under Sub-loans
          made under Part C.1
          of the Project

(2)       Works                      7,000,000      30%

(3)       Goods                     95,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally

(4)       Consultants’              22,000,000      100%
          services and
          training

(5)       Unallocated               40,000,000

                                   ___________

          TOTAL                    240,000,000
                                   ===========

2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:

    (a)   withdrawals by a Sub-borrower under any Sub-loan for expenditures
made to finance any turnkey contract under Category (1) of this Schedule,
unless the Sub-loan, and the Private Sub-project in respect of which such
Sub-loan is made, have been approved in accordance with the procedures and
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement; and

    (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $1,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1994.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods, works, services and training not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to create and strengthen the most
critical support services required for the implementation of on-going and
future agricultural reforms in the territory of the Borrower, in the course
of its transition to a market-oriented agricultural economy; and (b) to
build analytical and institutional capacity to identify, appraise and
implement agricultural and agro-business investments by private sector
entities on the basis of market criteria.

    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Market Infrastructure Development

1.  Market Information System

    Establishment of a nationwide agricultural market information system,
consisting of collection, processing and dissemination of market information
pertaining to agricultural commodities and inputs.

2.  Pilot Investments in Market Infrastructure

    Private Sub-projects involving the development of pilot privately-owned
and operated fruit and vegetable marketing enterprises in three
Participating Regions (Moscow City, Moscow Oblast and Belgorod Oblast) and
such other Participating Regions as may be agreed upon between the Bank and
the Borrower.

3.  Institutional Development

    (a)   Training of staff from eligible Public Project Entities and

Private Enterprises in the areas of marketing; information systems,
including data collection and processing; market enterprise development,
including stock management and storage operations; financial management;
product pricing and profitability analysis; and financial and cost
accounting.
    (b)   Clarification and development of the roles the MOAF and selected
administrations of Participating Regions in market development through
provision of technical assistance.

Part B:   Farmer Information and Advisory Service (FIAS)

1.  Farmer Information Development

    Strengthening MOAF’s capacity for information development and packaging
at the federal, oblast and rayon levels and providing assistance in
establishing FIAS centers at the oblast and rayon levels in Participating
Regions to provide agricultural advisory and training services and serve as
the primary source of agricultural and related information to farmers, farms
and enterprises.

2.  Farmer Information Dissemination

    Establishment, through Public Investment Sub-projects, of a multi-media
system for dissemination of farmer information.

3.  Institutional Development

    (a)   Training of:

          (i)   staff of the farmer information and advisory centers at the
                federal, oblast, and rayon levels; and

         (ii)   end-users representing a range of emerging farm
                organizations and agri-business enterprises in various
                aspects of farmer information development and
                dissemination.

    (b)   Development of computer software, farmer information packages and
dissemination and international contractual arrangements for farmer
information and advisory services through provision of technical assistance
therefor.

Part C:   Seed Industry Development

1.  Pilot Investment in Seed Enterprises

    Private Sub-projects involving the development of seed production,
processing and marketing by privately-owned and operated seed enterprises
producing hybrid corn and sunflower seeds in up to eleven Participating
Regions (Krasnodar and Stavropol Krais; Rostov, Belgorod, Volgograd,
Voronezh Oblasts and such other Participating Regions as may be agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower).

2.  Institutional Development

    (a)   Training of:

          (i)   staff of MOAF at federal level; department of
                agriculture/agriculture committee at oblast, rayon and
                republic levels;

          (ii)  staff of Gossortinspektsia and Gossortkomissia at federal,
                oblast, rayon and republic levels; and

          (iii) senior management staff and registered seed growers
                representing the Private Enterprises and members of NSAC
                and NSA.

    (b)   Technical Assistance to:

          (i)   NSAC in defining a national seed policy; updating the
                National Seed Law and drafting the implementation manual

                for the Plant Breeder’s Rights Law;

          (ii)  establish procedures for seed testing and varietal testing;

          (iii) draft articles of association and by-laws for the NSA; and

          (iv)  help organize training programs.

    (c)   Strengthening of the varietal testing stations and laboratories
for enhancing the varietal testing and registration of Gossortkomissia; and
establishing and strengthening of seed testing and training centers and
laboratories of Gosseminspektsia to enhance their efficiency and capacity.

Part D:   Project Development Unit (PDU)

    Establishment and maintenance of institutional capacity within the PDU
to provide administrative, institutional and training support to implement
the Project and to assist in the development of a capacity to prepare
agricultural support programs and development projects.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1

    beginning December 1, 1999
    through December 1, 2010             10,000,000

And on June 1, 2011                      10,000,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment

below:

    Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity

More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.        Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  Subject to the concurrence of the Bank, the design, construction,
equipping and commissioning of Private Sub-projects under Part C.1 of the
Project may be procured on turnkey basis which shall be exclusive of the
works and goods procured by the Private Enterprise using its own funds.
Bidders for such contracts shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
2.10 of the Guidelines.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Russian Federation may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1

through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.        Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $10,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from a list, acceptable to the Bank, of
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).

2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$14,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from
at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.  Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 to $1,000,000, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $18,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Bidders for these
contracts would be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

4.        Contracts for goods estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $100,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, and with respect to the first two contracts
for works for each component of the Project and all contracts for works
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.        The figure of 15 percent is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.      Employment of Consultants

    In order to assist the Borrower in implementing the Project, the

Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing

Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

    The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement.

A.  Overall Coordination and Management of the Project

1.  The MOAF shall be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the
overall implementation of the Project.

2.  Within MOAF, the Project Development Unit (PDU) shall be responsible for
day-to-day work related to Project implementation, budgeting, procurement,
disbursement, auditing, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and appraisal
of all components of the Project involving Private Sub-projects.

3.  The Component Implementation Units (CIUs) within the line departments
and other agencies of MOAF and in the Participating Regions referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement shall be responsible for coordinating and
managing the implementation of the relevant activities described under the
corresponding Parts of the Project, including supervision of activities to
be executed by Public Project Entities.

4.  The Borrower shall establish an interagency Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) to advise and assist the Minister of Agriculture on various
matters related to implementation of the Project. The PCC shall also approve
applications for Sub-loans to Private Enterprises under Parts A.2 and C.1
of the Project. The PCC shall be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and
will comprise a membership representing, inter alia, MOAF, MOF, and the
Ministry of Economy.

5.  With respect to any Project activities to be implemented in specific
regions which are subjects of the Federation, or in particular
administrative subdivisions thereof (rayons), the responsible CIU shall: (i)
examine the connection between the objectives of the Project and the
specific policies of such region or operating environment prevailing
therein; (ii) prior to authorizing the commencement of the execution of such
activity, determine the necessary conditions to ensure an appropriate
operating environment for such activity; and (iii) take all action necessary
to secure appropriate assurances and undertakings from the relevant subject
of the Federation (the Participating Region) in respect of the activity
concerned, including specific commitments regarding any services,
facilities, equipment and counterpart personnel to be made available by such
region or rayon in conjunction with the implementation of such activity.

B.  Part A of the Project

1.  The CIU shall approve the final design of and monitor the progress of
the MIS network development to be carried out by the Computer Center of the
MOAF under the Parts A.1 and B of the Project.

2.  Part A.2 of the Project shall be implemented through a CIU in MOAF and
three local CIUs established by the Moscow City, Moscow Oblast and Belgorod
Oblast administrations, respectively. The PDU shall, inter alia: (1)
appraise the feasibility studies for each proposed Private Sub-project; (2)
prepare technical specifications for each Private Sub-project; and (3)
coordinate with any Agency Banks with respect to accounting, reporting, and
repayments of Sub-loans.

C.  Part B of the Project

    The CIU shall approve the design and monitor the progress of the Public
Investment Sub-projects to be implemented with the assistance of the All-
Russian Scientific Research Institute of Innovation and Marketing in
Agriculture (ARSRIIMA) and its affiliates at the oblast and rayon levels,

and the Association of Peasant Farms and Cooperatives of Russia (AKKOR), and
other appropriate research and scientific institutes.

D.  Part C of the Project

1.  Part C of the Project shall be implemented by the CIU with the
assistance of NSAC, Gosseminspektsia and Gossortkomissia.

2.  PDU shall, inter alia: (1) appraise feasibility studies for each of the
proposed Private Sub-projects; (2) be responsible for the preparation of
technical specifications for each such Private Sub-project; (3) coordinate
with any Agency Banks with respect to accounting, reporting, and repayments
of Sub-loans; and (4) organize, through CIU, training and technical
assistance.
3.  MOAF shall: (1) establish the National Seed Advisory Committee (NSAC)
by December 31, 1994; (2) promote establishment of the National Seed
Association (NSA) by December 31, 1995; and (3) review and make
recommendations on the draft National Seed Law by June 30, 1995.

4.  Gossortkomissia shall upgrade and equip its varietal testing stations
and laboratories by December 31, 1995. Gosseminspektsia shall: (a)
establish/strengthen the seed testing and training centers at Moscow and
Krasnodar by June 30, 1996; and (b) strengthen regional seeds testing
laboratories by June 30, 1996.

                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

                    Public Project Entities Responsible
                       for Execution of the Project

                       Project, Investment,    Public Project
                           or Activity             Entity/ies

Under Part A.1 of      Development of MIS      Central Market
the Project (Market    network                 Information
Information System):                           Unit of MOAF
                                               and Computer
                                               Center of
                                               MOAF

Under Part B of the    Development of farmer   MOAF and
Project (Farmer        information packages    ARSRIIMA
Information and
Advisory service):     St. Petersburg          MOAF and
                       agricultural            AKKOR
                       exhibitions and fairs

                       Video productions       MOAF Video
                                               Center and
                                               AKKOR

                       Electronic              Computer Center
                       information, pilot      of MOAF, ARSRIIMA
                       programs                and Institute of
                                               Cybernetics

Under Part C.2 of      Upgrading of varietal   Gosseminspektsia
the Project (Seed      testing stations and
Industry Institu-      laboratories
tional Development):
                       Strengthening of Seed   Gossortkomissia
                       Testing Training
                       Center
                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)

set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit

in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 7

             On-Lending Procedures, Eligibility Criteria and
               Terms and Conditions of Private Sub-projects

A.  Procedures

1.        No Sub-loan shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan unless: (a) the relevant Private Sub-project shall have been
approved in advance by the PCC, either: (i) with the approval of the Bank,
following the provisions of paragraph 3 (c) of this Part A; or (ii) upon
receipt of proper evidence of the concurrence of the Bank, following the
provisions of paragraph 3 (d) of this Part A, as the case may be; and (b)
the expenditures under such Sub-loan in respect of which withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested shall have been made not earlier than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and
information required under this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.

2.  When presenting a Private Sub-project to the Bank for review or
concurrence, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Private
Enterprise to which the Sub-loan is proposed to be made and the approved
feasibility study for such Private Sub-project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement containing the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan and the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

3.  In addition to the general procedures described in paragraphs 1 and 2
of Part A of this Schedule, the following procedures shall be followed in
connection with any proposed Sub-loan:

    (a)   A Private Enterprise seeking a Sub-loan shall prepare a
feasibility study for the proposed Private Sub-project in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

    (b)   The PDU shall appraise the proposed Private Sub-project, and the
PCC shall approve each such Sub-loan, on the basis of recommendations made
by the PDU, which may employ other experts for such purpose.
    (c)   Until at least three Sub-loans shall have been made to Private
Enterprises under each of Parts A.1 and C.2 of the Project, respectively,
the PDU shall ensure that each qualifying Private Sub-Project for which a
Sub-loan is proposed to be made is submitted in advance to the Bank for
approval, such approval to be based on a review and appraisal of the

proposed Private Sub-project in such manner and of such scope as the Bank
shall reasonably request.

    (d)   After the first three Sub-loans shall have been made to Private
Enterprises under either Parts A.1 or C.2 of the Project, and unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, the PDU shall submit the approved feasibility
study for each proposed Private Sub-project under such Part to the Bank in
advance for concurrence with the recommendation of the PDU to approve such
Private Sub-project for financing.

    (e)   Following the approval of the Sub-loan by the PCC, and the
approval or concurrence from the Bank, the Borrower through the MOF and
MOAF, shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Private
Enterprise giving the Borrower legal rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, and containing, inter alia, the
terms and conditions enumerated in Part C of this Schedule 7.

B.  Eligibility Criteria

1.  Sub-loans shall be made only to Private Enterprises which are
independent, privately-owned and commercially profitable enterprises,
evaluated in accordance with economic, financial, technical and
environmental criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

2.  Under this Part B:

    (a)   the term "independent" shall mean any enterprise not controlled,
directly or indirectly, by the Borrower or any governmental entity;

    (b)   the term "privately-owned" shall mean that the ownership interest
by the Borrower or a political or administrative subdivision thereof, by any
agency of the Borrower or any subdivision thereof, or by any regional, local
or other governmental body in such Private Enterprise does not exceed 49
percent of equity; and
    (c)   the term "commercially profitable" shall mean any enterprise whose
existing and potential profitability meets profitability criteria
established by the PCC acceptable to the Bank.

C.        Terms and Conditions

    (a)   Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall require the Private
Enterprise to, inter alia: (i) carry out and operate the Private Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, agricultural, environmental, and managerial standards;
(ii) maintain separate adequate accounting and financial records, including
a separate bank account related to the Sub-loan and for expenditures
thereunder and ensure that revenues and expenditures related to the Private
Sub-project are kept distinct and separate from the Private Enterprise’s
operations unrelated to the Private Sub-project; (iii) procure the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and use such goods and
services exclusively in the carrying out of the Private Sub-project; (iv)
allow the Borrower, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank,
if the Bank shall so request, to inspect such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Private Sub-project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (v) take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including
insurance covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Private Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (vi) prepare and promptly furnish to the Borrower, for forwarding to
the Bank, if so requested by the Bank, all such information as the Borrower
or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Private Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Private Sub-project; (vii) have its records,
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (viii) employ trained managers
to manage the Private Sub-project; (ix) contribute not less than 15 percent
of the estimated total costs of implementing the Private Sub-project

(employing a consistent methodology for purposes of such cost estimates and
valuation of such contributions acceptable to the Bank); and (x) adopt a
production restructuring plan to improve production and productivity.

    (b)   Each Sub-loan shall: (i) be expressed in Dollars and be repayable
(principle and interest) in Dollars or ruble equivalent valued at the
prevailing market rate of exchange applicable at the time of the respective
due date of each such repayment; (ii) carry an adjustable interest rate
equal to the interest rate determined according to Section 2.05 of this
Agreement plus a margin of two and one-half percent (2.5%) to cover
administrative costs (including any commission payable to the Agency Banks)
and risks; (iii) be issued for a maximum maturity period of ten years (or
such longer period as may be acceptable to the Bank), with up to two years’
grace period, for the repayment of the principal of the Sub-loan; (iv) be
secured by liens or mortgages on the specific assets of the Private
Enterprise which are to be financed under the Sub-loan and a first charge
on all other assets of the Private Enterprise covering at least 100 percent
of the Sub-loan; and (v) be subject to a right of suspension upon failure
by such Private Enterprise to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.

