d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3747 PH

                               Loan Agreement

                 (Leyte - Luzon Geothermal Project - PNOC)

                                  between

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                                    and

                      PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY

                         Dated September 12, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3747 PH

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank") and
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY (the "Borrower").

      WHEREAS: (A) The Republic of the Philippines (the
"Guarantor") and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement")
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;

      WHEREAS: (C) The Project will be carried out by the
Philippine National Oil Company - Energy Development
Corporation ("PNOC-EDC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Borrower, with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PNOC-EDC the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

      WHEREAS: (D) The Borrower intends to obtain from the
Export-Import Bank of Japan and the Global Environment Trust
Fund (collectively, the Cofinanciers) loans or grants in an
aggregate amount equivalent to one hundred twenty-nine million
dollars ($129,000,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the

"Cofinancing Agreements") to be entered into between the
Cofinanciers, the Guarantor and the Borrower, as the case may
be;

      WHEREAS: (E) The Bank has agreed to make a loan to the
National Power Corporation ("NPC") to assist in the financing
of activities related to the Project (the "NPC Project"), upon
the terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement of even
date herewith (the "NPC Loan Agreement") between the Bank and
NPC, and a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith (the "NPC
Guarantee Agreement") between the Guarantor and the Bank; and

      WHEREAS: (F) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
            of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
            Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a) "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s financial years, which
period commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each
calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively,
each of said Fiscal Year.

      (b) "PNOC Charter" means the Guarantor’s Presidential
Decree No. 334 dated November 9, 1973, pursuant to which the
Borrower has been established as a state-owned national oil
company and is operating, as said Decree may be amended from
time to time.

      (c) "PNOC-EDC Charter" means, collectively, the
Guarantor’s Corporation Code, Batas Pambansa Blg. 68, dated May
1, 1980, and PNOC-EDC’s Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws,
as amended to the date of this Agreement, establishing PNOC-EDC
as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Borrower, duly authorized
and operating under the Guarantor’s laws and regulations.

      (d) "PNOC-EDC-NPC Agreement" means the agreement dated May
6, 1994, between PNOC-EDC and NPC pursuant to which PNOC-EDC
has undertaken to provide geothermally produced power to NPC,
and NPC has undertaken to purchase and transmit said power, all
in a manner consistent with the objectives of the Project and
the NPC Project, as said agreement may be amended from time to
time.

      (e) "Project Agreement" means the project agreement
between the Bank and PNOC-EDC of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.

      (f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

      (g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PNOC-EDC pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fourteen million
dollars ($114,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and
            the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause PNOC-EDC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
PNOC-EDC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
PNOC-EDC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:

      (a) Relend the entire proceeds of the Loan to PNOC-EDC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PNOC-EDC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include those
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (b) Exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by PNOC-EDC pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) of the
Project Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                 Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and energy practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and energy practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. (a) Except in the ordinary course of its
business, the Borrower shall not, without the Bank’s prior
consent, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which are required for the efficient
conduct of the operations of PNOC-EDC or the carrying out of
the Project by PNOC-EDC.

      (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall not, without the Bank’s prior
consent, sell, transfer or otherwise divest itself of any of
its proprietary interest in PNOC-EDC.

      Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall promptly take all
measures necessary to acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise
exercise all rights, powers, privileges and franchises required
for the proper conduct of its operations and carrying out of
its obligations under this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE V

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial

                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) and
                  the records and accounts for the Special
                  Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and separate accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for the
                  Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                  such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                ARTICLE VI

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)  The PNOC Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or the financial condition of the
Borrower or the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.

      (b)  The Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Borrower or for the suspension of its
operations.

      (c) PNOC-EDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that PNOC-EDC will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (e)  The PNOC-EDC Charter or the PNOC-EDC-NPC Agreement
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations
or the financial condition of PNOC-EDC or the ability of PNOC-
EDC to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.

      (f) The Guarantor or the Borrower or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of PNOC-EDC or for the
suspension of its operations.

      (g)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

               (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                     Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                     have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                     whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                     thereof, or

               (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                     prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                  for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.

      (h) Either of the parties to the PNOC-EDC-NPC Agreement
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations
under the PNOC-NPC Agreement.

      (i) The right of NPC to withdraw any part of the proceeds
of the NPC Loan under the NPC Loan Agreement shall have been
suspended by the Bank.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.

      (b) The event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.

      (c) Any event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (h)
or paragraph (i) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PNOC-EDC.

      (b) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
NPC Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      (c) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Cofinancing Agreements have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      (d) PNOC-EDC has entered into contracts, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the construction of
facilities under Part B of the Project necessary to provide at
least 300 megawatts of power.

      Section 7.02.  The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a) The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PNOC-EDC, and is legally binding upon PNOC-EDC in
accordance with its terms.

      (b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and PNOC-EDC and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and PNOC-EDC in accordance with its terms.

      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                               ARTICLE VIII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT).

      For the Borrower:

            Philippine National Oil Company
            PA-Lepanto Building

            Pameo de Roxas
            Makati, Metro-Manila
            1200 Philippines

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  PNOC                    22259
                  Makati

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By  /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific

                        PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY

                        By /s/ Raul Ch. Rabe
                                                Authorized Representative

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
          Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1) Goods for Parts               71,100,000        50% of foreign
    A (1) and A (2)                                 expenditures,
    of the Project                                  50% of local ex-
                                                    penditures (ex-
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    35% of local expen-
                                                    ditures for other
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally

(2) Works for Parts               40,800,000        40%
    A (1) and A (2)
    of the Project

(3) Consultants’                                    50%
    services for
    Part A
    of the                         2,100,000
    Project

                                 ___________
      TOTAL
                                 114,000,000

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000), may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1993.

3.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to (1) strengthen the
efficiency of the energy sector, (2) assist in meeting the
rapidly increasing demand for electrical power within the
Guarantor’s territory by expanding PNOC-EDC’s geothermal power
generation capacity, (3) strengthen PNOC-EDC’s financial
viability and (4) promote private sector participation in
geothermal power generation projects within the Guarantor’s
territory.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

    Carrying out of a program to develop a 440 megawatt
geothermal energy field on Leyte Island, consisting of the:

(1)       drilling of about 65 producer and injector wells in the
Malitbog, Mahanagdong and Alto-Peak sectors of the island, to
develop geotheromal resources;

(2)       construction of steam gathering systems and power
transmission systems to expand the island’s geothermal capacity
by 440 megawatts; and

(3)       carrying out of a pilot program to recover and reinject
carbon dioxide emitted from geothermal wells into geothermal
reservoirs, consisting of drilling of injection wells and
provision of surface processing and evacuation facilities and
utilities.

Part B:

    Construction of a 440 megawatt geothermal power plant.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*

September 15, 1999                             2,160,000
March 15, 2000                                 2,240,000

September 15, 2000                             2,320,000
March 15, 2001                                 2,405,000
September 15, 2001                             2,490,000
March 15, 2002                                 2,580,000
September 15, 2002                             2,675,000
March 15, 2003                                 2,775,000
September 15, 2003                             2,875,000
March 15, 2004                                 2,980,000
September 15, 2004                             3,085,000
March 15, 2005                                 3,200,000
September 15, 2005                             3,315,000
March 15, 2006                                 3,435,000
September 15, 2006                             3,560,000
March 15, 2007                                 3,690,000
September 15, 2007                             3,825,000
March 15, 2008                                 3,965,000
September 15, 2008                             4,105,000
March 15, 2009                                 4,255,000
September 15, 2009                             4,410,000
March 15, 2010                                 4,570,000
September 15, 2010                             4,735,000
March 15, 2011                                 4,910,000
September 15, 2011                             5,090,000
March 15, 2012                                 5,275,000
September 15, 2012                             5,465,000
march 15, 2013                                 5,665,000
September 15, 2013                             5,870,000
March 15, 2014                                 6,075,000

____________________________

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a  percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on the
                                   day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than eleven years
    before maturity

More than eleven years but not                 0.80
    more than sixteen years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than eighteen years
    before maturity

More than eighteen years before                1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  The term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

    (b) The term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                         Subsidiary Loan Agreement
                              Principal Terms

    The principal terms set forth in this Schedule shall apply
for the purposes of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.

1.  The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the
equivalent in dollars (determined as of the date or respective
dates of repayment) of the value of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special
Account on account of the cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

2.  The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
over a period not exceeding 20 years, inclusive of a grace
period not exceeding 5 years.

3.  Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at
a rate equal at least to the rate applicable from time to time
to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
Agreement.

