d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3760 HR

                              Loan Agreement

                    (Emergency Reconstruction Project)

                                  between

                            REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 27, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3760 HR
                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
            the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meaning:

      (a)   "ACMU" means the Agriculture Coordinating and Monitoring Unit
established within MAF which will be responsible for coordinating the
agriculture component implementation.
      (b)   "ERPD" means the Emergency Reconstruction Project Division
established within HKBO.

      (c)   "HKBO" means the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction, or any
successor thereto.

      (d)   "Law" means the Law on Financing the Reconstruction of Housing
and Industrial Objects Damaged and Destroyed by the War, dated November 29,
1993.

      (e)   "MAF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.

      (f)   "Project Region" means one of the five regions (Northeast, Upper
Central, Lower Central, Southwest and South) as described in Tables 1 and
2 in the Annex to Schedule 5 of this Agreement.

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred and twenty eight million dollars ($128,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in German marks (DM) a special deposit account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate

for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the respective parts of the Project through the
agencies described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate road maintenance, railway
transport, electric power supply, water supply, agricultural, environmental,
financing and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of para- graph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing prin- ciples
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than 6 months after the end of each such year,
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                        Effectiveness; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of

Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that suitably qualified
and experienced key staff has been appointed for the ERPD.

      Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Katan§i§eva 5
            41 000 Zagreb, Croatia

                                          Telex:

                                            862-21215
                                            862-21833

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                        By /s/ Zoran Jasic
                        Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                        Acting Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods:

    (a)  for Part A(4)        11,900,000        100% of foreign
         of the Project                         expenditures,
                                                35% of local
                                                expenditures

    (b)  for Parts B and C   48,200,000)        100% of foreign
         of the Project                )        expenditures,
                                       )        100% of local
    (c)  Others              38,100,000)        expenditures
                                       )        (ex-factory cost)
                                       )        and 75% of local
                                       )        expenditures for
                                       )        other items
                                       )        procured locally

(2) Works:

    (a)  for Part A(4)         7,800,000        100% of foreign
         of the Project                         expenditures,
                                                35% of local
                                                expenditures

    (b)  For Parts B and C    11,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures

(3) Consultants’               1,000,000        100%
    Services

(4) Unallocated               10,000,000
                             ___________

    TOTAL                    128,000,000
                             ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (a) no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $25,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June
1, 1993; and (b) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures for Categories (1) (a) and (b) and (2) (a) and (b) unless
conditions described in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 have been met.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (1)
financing the repair or reconstruction of war-damaged infrastructure (roads
and bridges, railways, power, water and sewerage, and flood control); (2)
the repair or replacement of agricultural assets (livestock and equipment);
and (3) the repair of damaged housing, schools and health centers, as well
as water and power networks, in a limited number of communities, in order
to assist in the return of displaced households to their homes.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Infrastructure

(1)       Roads and Bridges:

(2)       Railways:

    Replacement of critical road maintenance equipment and spare parts lost
during the war.

    Purchasing of priority items including: (a) spare parts for diesel
locomotives, rolling stock, and track maintenance machines; (b) minimum
replenishment of the depleted stock of materials for tracks,
electrification, signalling, and telecommunications; and (c) replacement of
small tools for track repairs.

(3)       Power:

    (a)   Cross-island transmission interconnection assuring reliable power
supply to the areas of Zadar and Sibenik; and (b) reconstruction of the
Dubrovnik area distribution networks.

(4)       Water Supply, Sewerage and Flood Control:

    (a)   Carrying out about 20 small-scale water and sewerage projects to
repair war-related damage in the selected areas; and (b) refurbishing of
flood control systems through repair of damaged flood control embankments,
water control structures, monitoring and communications systems in the Sava
River basin, and replacement of damaged construction and maintenance
equipment.

Part B:   Community Reconstruction Program

    Selected Communities Reconstruction: assistance to households in
communities that have sustained substantial damage, including: (a) financial
assistance to households for acquisition of housing repair materials; (b)
reconstruction of the minimum complement of social infrastructure
(particularly primary schools and primary health care facilities); and (c)
reconstruction of community-level water and sanitation facilities and low-
voltage power networks.

Part C:   Agriculture

(1)       Assistance in rebuilding the national herds for milk and meat
production through the provision of pregnant cows, goats, and mares to
private farmers, and through the strengthening of artificial insemination
and veterinary services by providing boars, special vehicles, and equipment.

(2)       Partial replacement of lost tractors and motor cultivators for
private farmers.

(3)       Limited replacement of grain dryers.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1997.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due                        Payment of Principal
                                        (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1998                       3,040,000.00
June 15, 1999                           3,150,000.00
December 15, 1999                       3,265,000.00
June 15, 2000                           3,385,000.00
December 15, 2000                       3,505,000.00
June 15, 2001                           3,635,000.00
December 15, 2001                       3,765,000.00
June 15, 2002                           3,905,000.00
December 15, 2002                       4,045,000.00
June 15, 2003                           4,195,000.00
December 15, 2003                       4,345,000.00
June 15, 2004                           4,505,000.00
December 15, 2004                       4,665,000.00
June 15, 2005                           4,835,000.00
December 15, 2005                       5,010,000.00
June 15, 2006                           5,195,000.00
December 15, 2006                       5,385,000.00
June 15, 2007                           5,580,000.00
December 15, 2007                       5,780,000.00
June 15, 2008                           5,990,000.00
December 15, 2008                       6,210,000.00
June 15, 2009                           6,435,000.00
December 15, 2009                       6,670,000.00
June 15, 2010                           6,910,000.00
December 15, 2010                       7,165,000.00
June 15, 2011                           7,430,000.00

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                  The interest rate (expressed
                                  as a percentage per annum)
                                  applicable to the Loan
                                  on the day of prepayment
                                  multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.18
    before maturity

More than three years but               0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                 0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not              0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity

More than 15 years before               1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement for goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods, manufactured in Croatia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Items or groups of items for specialized vehicles, equipment, and
livestock, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $14,400,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited inter- national bidding
procedures from a list of qualified suppliers, acceptable to the Bank and
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55
and 2.56 thereof).

2.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,900,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.  Standard items or groups of items of small value, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.  Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $7,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

5.  Building materials obtained by eligible households estimated to cost up
to the limits established by the Law as defined in Section 1.02 (d) of this
Agreement, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $29,900,000 may be
procured from local suppliers according to the local procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

6.  Contracts for proprietary spare parts and replacement equipment may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$9,100,000.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   For items to be procured under Part A and Part C (1) and (2) of
this Schedule, the Bank would review the invitations to bid and bidding
documents for the first contract for goods and works under each component,
as specified in Schedule 2 hereinabove, and for all contracts over
$1,000,000 and the evaluation reports for all contracts. All contracts under
Part C (6) of this Schedule would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph
2 (d) of the Appendix to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the Bank prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in project implementation and in
procurement, and in the design of reconstruction works, if necessary, the
Borrower shall employ qualified consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants’ Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

(1)       The Borrower shall maintain ERPD within HKBO which shall bear the
overall responsibility for the coordination of the carrying out of the
Project, including preparation of quarterly implementation reports and
reports on project accounts maintained by implementing agencies, on a
consolidated basis.

(2)       The components as specified in Schedule 2 shall be implemented by
Croatian Roads (HC) for Part A(1) of the Project; Croatian Railways (HZ) for

Part A(2) of the Project, and Croatian Electric Power Company (HEP) for Part
A(3) of the Project, under the coordination of ERPD.

(3)       The Croatian Water Management Company (HV) shall be responsible
for the supervision of the small water and sewerage projects (Part A (4)
(a)) and for the direct implementation of the flood control and drainage
projects (Part A(4)(b)), under the coordination of ERPD.

(4)       Parts A(4), B and C of the Project shall be carried out on the
basis of implementation programs for each of the Project Regions prepared
by the Borrower and furnished to the Bank. The Borrower shall ensure that
only such investments shall be included in each such implementation program
as are determined to be sustainable, technically feasible and economically
sound.

    No activities under Parts A(4), B and C of the Project shall be eligible
for financing from the Loan proceeds until the Bank shall have approved the
implementation programs referred to hereinabove.

(5)       Not later than March 31, 1996, the Bank will review with the
Borrower the progress made in the Project implementation. The Borrower shall
take all necessary measures to execute the actions identified and agreed
upon between the Bank and the Borrower during such review.

Agriculture Component

(6)       For the agriculture component, MAF shall have overall
responsibility, but shall appoint implementing agencies for Parts C (1), (2)
and (3) of the Project, respectively. The Agricultural Advisory Service
(AAS) shall provide assistance in the selection of beneficiaries, monitoring
of farm operations, and payment arrangements. Breeding stock and farm
machinery shall be distributed to beneficiaries in accordance with agreed
plans.

    For the implementation of Part C(3) of the Project the implementing
agency shall, on behalf of the MAF, carry out procurement of the new dryers,
in coordination with the beneficiary enterprises.

(7)       For the implementation of Part C(1) and C(2) of the Project,
farmers, farmer groups and private contractors shall be selected according
to the criteria defined in the Annex to this Schedule and shall sign
contracts with the MAF acceptable to the Bank. The breeding stock and
equipment for the artificial insemination shall be utilized by the Center
for Reproduction and Animal Breeding (CRAB). The veterinarian vehicles and
semen transport containers shall be provided to veterinary stations located
in the Priority communities.

(8)       For Part C of the Project cost recovery arrangements shall be as
follows:

          (i)   Individuals receiving livestock under Part C (1) of the
                Project shall pay in kind or in cash, within an agreed
                period. Titles to the animals shall be retained by the MAF
                until the payment has been received. Veterinary stations
                receiving vehicles and semen transport containers shall pay
                the full cost under an agreed installment purchase
                arrangement.

          (ii)  Farmers receiving tractor or motor cultivator packages
                under Part C (2) of the Project shall pay the full cost
                under agreed installment purchase arrangements. Titles to
                the equipment shall be retained by MAF until all payments
                have been received.

          (iii) Enterprises receiving grain dryers under Part C (3) of the
                Project, shall pay for the equipment in accordance with the
                terms of an agreed contract between MAF and the
                enterprises.
Community Reconstruction Component

(9)       ERPD shall have responsibility for implementing the community
reconstruction component (Part B of the Project). The reconstruction of

schools, health centers, low voltage power and water and sanitation networks
(Part B (b) and (c)) shall be the responsibi-lities of the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MEC), the Ministry of Health (MOH), HEP and local
utilities, respectively, under the coordination of ERPD. ERPD shall liaise
with MAF to ensure that the selected communities are given priority for
livestock and farm machinery assistance within Part C of the Project.

(10)      The beneficiaries for Part B of the Project shall be selected in
accordance with the criteria defined in the Annex to this Schedule.

(11)      For purposes of Part B (a) of the Project the Borrower through
HKBO shall onlend the proceeds of the Loan to the beneficiaries under credit
agreements to be entered into between the beneficiaries and commercial banks
selected by HKBO (the Participating Banks), under terms and conditions set
forth in the Law as defined in Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement. Any
changes of the procedures currently applicable to the beneficiaries
receiving financial assistance under Part B of the Project shall be agreed
with the Bank.

(12)      HKBO shall monitor the financial viability of the Participating
Banks and shall set up prudent internal credit limits for the total amount
of HKBO loans to each of the Participating Banks. In reviewing the financial
viability of the Participating Banks, HKBO shall take into consideration
international banking standards of solvency and liquidity.
                            Annex to Schedule 5

(1)       For Parts B and C of the Project, 16 areas (as described in Table
1 in this Annex) are established as Groupings of Priority Communities,
identified on the basis of their status regarding percentage of damaged
housing stock.

    Within these 16 areas, all households with: (a) title to a house which
has sustained war-related damage in Categories I-III, as defined in the Law
as defined in Section 1.02 (d) of this Agreement; and (b) official
assessment of such damage, shall be entitled to financial assistance on the
terms and conditions referred to in Paragraphs (6) through (12) of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.

    Upon substantial completion of repairs of housing damage in Categories
I-III, the remaining funds can be used for undertaking repairs of housing
damage in other higher Categories.

(2)       Part A (4) of the Project shall be carried out in areas described
in Table 2 in this Annex.

(3)       Additional areas shall be eligible for assistance under Parts A
(4), B and C of the Project, provided that:

          (i)   the areas to be considered for Parts B and C of the Project
                have sustained a substantial percentage of damage to
                housing stock, and community groupings in these areas are
                based on reasonable school and health facility population
                catchment areas; and

          (ii)  an assessment with respect to accessibility for effective
                project implementation of each additional area shall have
                been undertaken by the Borrower, the results of which shall
                have been agreed with the Bank.

  Table 1:  Priority Groups of Communities of Part B and C of the Project

›Refer to hard copy for Table 1|

               Table 2:  Areas for Part A(4) of the Project

›Refer to hard copy for Table 1|

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount

of the Authorized Allocation.

    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)

of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

