d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3764 PAK

                              Loan Agreement

                    (Power Sector Development Project)

                                  between

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated September 14, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3764 PAK
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1994, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C of the Project will be carried
out by the Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan (WAPDA) with
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to WAPDA a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and WAPDA;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

      (a)   "WAPDA" means the Water and Power Development Authority of
Pakistan, established and existing under the WAPDA Act, and any successor
thereto;

      (b)   "WAPDA Act" means the Borrower’s Water and Power Development
Authority Act, 1958, as amended by the Borrower’s Water and Power
Development Authority (Amendment) Act of 1994, and as may be further amended
from time to time;

      (c)   "Investment Program" means WAPDA’s least cost program for
development of power generation, transmission and distribution systems for
the period FY 94-99;

      (d)   "Strategic Plan" means the Borrower’s plan dated April 1992 for
restructuring and privatizing the power sector;

      (e)   "NEPRA" means the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
to be established under Part A(2) of the Project;

      (f)   "AEB" means an Area Electricity Board of WAPDA;

      (g)   "EHV" means Extra High Voltage;

      (h)   "STG" means Secondary Transmission Grid;

      (i)   "MV" means Medium Voltage;

      (j)   "LV" means Low Voltage;

      (k)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

      (l)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and WAPDA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (m)   "Borrower’s Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (n)   "WAPDA Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement;

      (o)   "Special Accounts" mean the Borrower’s Special Account and the
WAPDA Special Account collectively; and "Special Account" means each and any
such account individually;

      (p)   "FY" or "financial year" means the Borrower’s or WAPDA’s
financial year, as the case may be, covering the period July 1 through June

30; and

      (q)   "Rs" or "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
two hundred thirty million dollars ($230,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A(2) and A(3) of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Borrower’s Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

                (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                      the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                      Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                      Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

               (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                      reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                      percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                      of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                      such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                      allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                      (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                      1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                      as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

              (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                      six months of a calendar year.

    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
    the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
    Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
    of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
    each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
    Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
    during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
    during such Interest Period."

          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
    Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
    determined in respect of such Quarter."

          "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
    January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

    Section 2.08. The Chairman of WAPDA is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions in respect of Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C
of the Project.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end: (i) shall carry out Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, commercial and power utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project; and (ii) without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause WAPDA to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of WAPDA therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable WAPDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out Parts A(2) and A(3) of, and perform its other
obligations with respect to, the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

    (c)   The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to $218,000,000 out
of the proceeds of the Loan to WAPDA under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and WAPDA under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include: (i) the
principal amount repayable by WAPDA to be the equivalent in Rupees
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawals from the Loan
Account) of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account; (ii)
the principal amount to be repaid by WAPDA in thirty equal install- ments
over a period of twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5)
years; (iii) the payment of interest by WAPDA at the rate of eleven percent
(11%) per annum; and (iv) the reimbursement by WAPDA to the Borrower of all
amounts paid by the Borrower to the Bank in respect of commitment charges
on the proceeds of the Loan relent to WAPDA.

    (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the

Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.

    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C of the Project
shall be carried out by WAPDA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                       Financial and Other Covenants

    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts
A(2) and A(3) of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project or any part
thereof.

    (b)   The Borrower shall:

                (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                      paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                      Borrower’s Special Account for each fiscal year
                      audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                      principles consistently applied, by independent
                      auditors acceptable to the Bank;

               (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                      case not later than six months after the end of each
                      such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                      of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                      have reasonably requested; and

              (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                      said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                      the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                      with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                      accounts reflecting such expenditures;

               (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                      received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                      which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                      made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                      bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                      expenditures;

              (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                      records; and

               (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                      the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                      Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                      separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                      statements of expenditure submitted during such
                      fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                      internal controls involved in their preparation, can

                      be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all federal and provincial
governmental agencies and departments to settle all bills for the supply of
electricity by WAPDA within three months of receipt of such bills.

    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that, with effect from September
30, 1995, all flat tariffs charged by WAPDA for tubewells will include a
metered energy charge component.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

    (a)   WAPDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.

    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that WAPDA will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement.

    (c)   The WAPDA Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
WAPDA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of WAPDA or for the
suspension of its operations.

    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

    (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

    (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and WAPDA; and

    (b)   draft legislation satisfactory to the Bank has been introduced in
the Borrower’s Parliament for the establishment of NEPRA.

    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

    (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by WAPDA, and is legally binding upon WAPDA in accordance with its terms;
and

    (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and WAPDA and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and WAPDA in accordance with its terms.

    Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer
in that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan

          Cable address:                Telex:

                ECONOMIC                  952-5634
                Islamabad

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                           64l45 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                Authorized Representative

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                Regional Vice President
                South Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
        Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

A.  For the Borrower

(1) Equipment and                 1,500,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                      expenditures, 100%
                                                   of local expendi-
                                                   tures (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 80% of
                                                   local expenditures
                                                   for other items
                                                   procured locally

(2) Consultants’                 10,500,000       100%
    services and
    training

B.  For WAPDA

(3) Civil works                  58,000,000        60%
    and installa-
    tion and erection

(4) Equipment and               142,000,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                      expenditures, 100%
                                                   of local expendi-
                                                   tures (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 80% of
                                                   local expenditures
                                                   for other items
                                                   procured locally

(5) Consultants’                  8,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

(6) Unallocated                  10,000,000
                                ___________

        TOTAL                   230,000,000
                                ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:

    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1993;

    (b)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the

Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

    (c)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which the Bank
or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance out of the
proceeds of any other loan or credit.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for:

    (a)   expenditures under contracts for goods and works which cost
$200,000 equivalent or less each;

    (b)   expenditures under contracts for consultants’ services which cost
$100,000 equivalent or less each; and

    (c)   expenditures for training, all under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) set the stage for a gradual
and orderly privatization of the power sector in general and WAPDA in
particular; (b) support WAPDA’s least cost power investment program so as
to minimize the country’s chronic power shortage and to facilitate the
privatization process; (c) enhance the resource mobilization capability and
operational efficiency, autonomy and accountability of power sector
entities; and (d) strengthen the environmental assessment and mitigation
capabilities within the power sector.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Restructuring and Privatization Program

    Implementation of the Strategic Plan through:

    (1)   the reorganization and corporatization of WAPDA into a holding
          company with decentralized generation, transmission and
          distribution subsidiaries;

    (2)   the establishment of NEPRA to set standards for and regulate a
          gradually privatized power sector;

    (3)   the definition and adoption of a power tariff policy and tariff
          administration system consistent with the efficient operation and
          the privatization objectives of the sector;

    (4)   the development of a manpower transition program to address the
          concerns of WAPDA’s labor and staff arising from WAPDA’s gradual
          passage into the private sector; and

    (5)   the initial offering of selected assets of WAPDA for acquisition
          by the private sector.

Part B:   Investment Program

    Implementation of a four-year time-slice (FY 95-98) of the Investment
Program, such as would, inter alia, improve the reliability of the power
sector so as to make it attractive to the private sector, through:

    (1)   the expansion of generation facilities, including the completion
          of certain on-going, and the construction of new, thermal and
          hydel projects;

    (2)   the expansion and reinforcement of the transmission system,
          including the completion of on-going, and the construction of new,
          EHV and STG lines and grid-station projects;

    (3)   the expansion, reinforcement and rehabilitation of the
          distribution system, including the construction of MV and LV

          lines, the installation of new transformers and the provision of
          new service drops for LV line customers; and

    (4)   the expansion and reinforcement of the rural electrification
          system, including the construction of MV and LV lines.

Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training

1.  Carrying out for WAPDA of: (a) a distribution diagnostic study of one
WAPDA AEB; (b) a sectoral environmental assessment study; (c) a management
information systems (MIS) implementation program; and (d) a financial
resource mobilization study.

2.  Strengthening of WAPDA’s training programs through the provision of
special expertise and equipment and materials for: (a) the engineering and
generation training academies; (b) the switch-gear workshop; and (c) hot-
line maintenance especially for the 220 and 132 kV (kilovolt) lines.

                                 *   *   *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule
                                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  (Expressed in dollars)*

October 15, 1999                                       4,355,000
April 15, 2000                                         4,515,000
October 15, 2000                                       4,680,000
April 15, 2001                                         4,850,000
October 15, 2001                                       5,025,000
April 15, 2002                                         5,210,000
October 15, 2002                                       5,400,000
April 15, 2003                                         5,595,000
October 15, 2003                                       5,800,000
April 15, 2004                                         6,010,000
October 15, 2004                                       6,225,000
April 15, 2005                                         6,455,000
October 15, 2005                                       6,690,000
April 15, 2006                                         6,930,000
October 15, 2006                                       7,185,000
April 15, 2007                                         7,445,000
October 15, 2007                                       7,715,000
April 15, 2008                                         7,995,000
October 15, 2008                                       8,285,000
April 15, 2009                                         8,585,000
October 15, 2009                                       8,900,000
April 15, 2010                                         9,225,000
October 15, 2010                                       9,560,000
April 15, 2011                                         9,905,000
October 15, 2011                                      10,265,000
April 15, 2012                                        10,640,000
October 15, 2012                                      11,025,000
April 15, 2013                                        11,425,000
October 15, 2013                                      11,840,000
April 15, 2014                                        12,265,000

__________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                        The interest rate (expressed as a
                                        percentage per annum) applicable
                                        to the Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                            0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                            0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                              0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                           0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                           0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                            1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                             Special Accounts

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4)
and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of the
Borrower, an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Borrower’s Special Account, and, in respect
of WAPDA, an amount equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the WAPDA Special Account, all pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the relevant Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower or
WAPDA, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower or
                WAPDA, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Bank
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at such

                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Bank the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis
                of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, withdraw from the
                Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                amount as the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, out
of a Special Account, the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall, at
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be,
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project in case of the
Borrower or for Parts A(1), A(4), A(5) and B of the Project in the case of
WAPDA, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project in the case of the Borrower or for
Parts A(1), A(4), A(5) and B of the Project in the case of WAPDA, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized
Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A(2) and
A(3) of the Project in the case of the Borrower or for Parts A(1), A(4),
A(5) and B of the Project in case of WAPDA shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may
be. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case
may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower or WAPDA,
as the case may be, has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may
be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower or WAPDA, as the case may be, may, upon notice to the
Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

A.  Undertakings of the Borrower

1.  The Borrower shall, subject to the approval of the legislation referred
to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement by the Borrower’s Parliament,
establish NEPRA not later than June 30, 1995.

2.  The Borrower shall, with respect to the power tariff policy and tariff
administration study required to be carried out for purposes of Part A(3)
of the Project: (a) upon completion of the study, review and agree with the
Bank on the recommendations thereof by March 31, 1996; and (b) implement the
recommendations so agreed with effect from September 30, 1996.

B.  Undertakings of WAPDA

1.  WAPDA shall, with respect to the distribution diagnostic study of an AEB
to be carried out under Part C(1) of the Project: (a) not later than
September 30, 1995, employ the consultants required for this purpose
pursuant to the provisions of Section II of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement; and (b) upon completion of the study, agree with the Bank on the
recommendations thereof, implement such agreed recommendations, and extend
such recommendations to other AEBs to the extent relevant, all in accordance
with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank.

2.  WAPDA shall, with respect to its Management Information Systems,
currently being implemented under a pilot program: (a) upon completion of
such program, agree with the Bank on the findings and recommendations
resulting therefrom; and (b) implement such agreed recommendations in
accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank.

3.  WAPDA shall complete the detailed designs for: (a) the STG facilities
to be provided under Part B(2) of the Project, by December 31, 1995; and (b)
the distribution facilities to be provided under Part B(3) of the Project,
by December 31, 1996.

4.  WAPDA shall employ, pursuant to the provisions of Section II of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement and not later than September 30, 1995, the
consultants required for the implementation of modern automated accounting
and financial systems in each of WAPDA’s generation plants and AEBs and for
its transmission system.

5.  WAPDA shall, with respect to the sectoral environmental assessment study
to be carried out under Part C.1(b) of the Project: (a) not later than June
30, 1995, employ the consultants required for this purpose pursuant to the
provisions of Section II of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; (b) upon
completion of the study, review and agree with the Bank on the
recommendations thereof; and (c) implement such agreed recommendations in
accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank.

C.  Undertakings of the Borrower and WAPDA

1.  The Borrower and WAPDA shall:

    (a)   not later than March 31 in each year, review with the Bank WAPDA’s
          updated five-year rolling investment program covering the current
          year, the last preceding year and the next three following years,
          with a view to enabling the Bank to satisfy itself that the
          program remains consistent with the Borrower’s macro-economic
          targets;

    (b)   not later than April 15 in each year, review with the Bank the
          financing plan for said program, including borrowing proposals
          aimed at firming up by June 30 of the current year the financing
          plan for the next following year; and

    (c)   ensure that, if the financing plan referred to in paragraph (b)
          above indicates a short-fall in the funds available for any given
          year of the Investment Program, the Borrower will provide or cause
          to be provided to WAPDA the additional funds required to make up
          the short-fall.

2.  The Borrower and WAPDA shall, with respect to the manpower transition
program study to be carried out for purposes of Part A(4) of the Project:
(a) complete the study by December 31, 1995; (b) review and agree with the
Bank on the recommendations of the study by March 31, 1996; and (c)
implement the program so agreed with effect from June 30, 1996.

3.  The Borrower and WAPDA shall, with respect to the corporatization of
WAPDA to be carried out under Part A(1) of the Project: (a) as a step
towards such corporatization, commercialize and corporatize one WAPDA
thermal power station and one WAPDA distribution AEB by June 30, 1995; and
(b) complete the corporatization of WAPDA as a whole by December 31, 1997.

4.  The Borrower and WAPDA shall, in carrying out Part A(5) of the Project,
offer for acquisition by the private sector one WAPDA  thermal power station
and one WAPDA distribution AEB by December 31, 1995.

5.  The Borrower and WAPDA shall not offer any of WAPDA’s assets to aprivate sector 
purchaser under Part A(5) of the Project without first
obtaining: (a) the concurrence of the Bank to the proposed offering and the
terms and conditions thereof; and (b) undertakings, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, from the purchaser that any on-going projects
relating to the assets being offered shall continue to be implemented under
the original arrangements and in accordance with the original plans and that
the proceeds of any Bank loan or Association credit provided for the
purposes of such projects shall continue to be utilized on the original
terms and conditions.

6.  The Borrower and WAPDA shall, jointly with the Bank and in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, carry out, not later than
June 30, 1996, a mid-term review of their respective activities under the
Project and make such adjustments in such activities and the related
organizational and operational arrangements as may be warranted in the light
of such review and agreed with the Bank.

