d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3818 JO

                              Loan Agreement

              (Agriculture Sector Technical Support Project)

                                  between

                      THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated December 19, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3818 JO

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1994, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower has requested assistance from the Bank
to finance urgently needed imports required during the
execution of a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s
agriculture and water sectors (hereinafter called the Program),
and the Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making a loan (the ASAL) in
an amount equivalent to $80,000,000 on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the ASAL Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) cofinancing in the amount
of DM 6,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms

and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Financing
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the KfW
under framework of the German Financial Cooperation;

      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Deutsche
Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) a grant in the
approximate amount of DM 3,300,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
(the GTZ Grant Agreement) to be entered into between GTZ and
the Borrower under the framework of the German Technical
Cooperation; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the
Borrower;

      (b)   "MOWI" means the Ministry of Water and Irrigation of
the Borrower;

      (c)   "JVA" means the Jordan Valley Authority, established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 19 of 1988;

      (d)   "NCARTT" means the National Center for Agricultural
Research and Technology Transfer, established and operating
pursuant to By-Law No. 42 of 1993;

      (e)   "WAJ" means the Water Authority of Jordan,
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 18 of 1988;

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and

      (h)   "Basin Protection Unit" means a unit of technical and
administrative staff established in a water catchment basin for
the purpose of monitoring groundwater and well characteristics.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of six million six hundred
thousand dollars ($6,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than

six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A (1) and A
(2) of the Project through JVA; Parts A (3) and A (4) of the
Project through WAJ; Part B (1) of the Project through NCARTT;
and Parts B (2) and B (3) of the Project through MOA, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than December 31, 1996, or such later date
as the Bank may agree, provide the Bank with detailed
information concerning project activities in preparation for a
mid-term review on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project;

      (b)   promptly thereafter, hold a mid-term review with the
Bank on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
Thereafter, the Borrower shall carry out a work program for
implementation of the Project satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;

      (d)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (e)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the
Project Coordinator shall be directly responsible to the
Minister of Agriculture with such responsibilities and powers
as may be necessary or desirable for the proper execution and
supervision of the Project, and shall be responsible, in
particular, for preparing reports on implementation issues and
monitoring and coordinating Project-related activities.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1995 cause NCARTT to
employ an individual to fill the position of Management
Specialist in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                  such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:

      (a)   The GTZ Grant Agreement and the KfW Financing
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 30,
1995, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the Agreement providing
                        therefor, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                  for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the ASAL Agreement have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of

this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  MINISTRY OF PLANNING             21319 JO
                  Amman

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                        THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                        By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
                                                Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated        % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment                       5,300,000       100% of foreign
    and Field                                       expenditures and
    Vehicles                                        80% of local
                                                    expenditures

(2) Consultants’                      500,000       100%
    Services and
    Training

(3) Unallocated                       800,000
                                    _________

          TOTAL                     6,600,000
                                    =========

2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.

3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such
expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the
Borrower in implementation of measures to protect and optimize
use of surface and ground water resources; (b) to develop the
Borrower’s capacities in agricultural research and extension in
order to improve services to producers affected by agricultural
policy adjustment; and (c) to enhance the Borrower’s capacities
in monitoring and evaluation in order to enable the effects of
adjustment to be tracked.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Water Measurement and Management

(1)  Rehabilitation of farm turnouts in the Jordan Valley to
permit water measurement and equitable distribution of
irrigation water and to improve operation and maintenance of
the water conveyance system.

(2)  Improvement of JVA’s capacities: (a) for monitoring
water quality and testing soils; (b) for operation and
maintenance of the irrigation system; and (c) for staff
development and studies.

(3)  Improvement of WAJ’s Basin Protection Units for
monitoring and control of groundwater abstraction in the
Highlands through: (a) volumetric measurement of tubewell
abstraction; (b) monitoring of groundwater level and quality;
and (c) provision of equipment, furniture and vehicles to the
Basin Protection Units.

(4)  Improvement of the efficiency of water conveyance to
high areas of Amman during peak demand periods through
provision of approximately ten water tankers to WAJ.

Part B:   Agricultural Support Services

(1)  Provision of assistance to NCARTT: (a) to implement the
new agricultural research and technology transfer strategy; (b)
to strengthen research planning, monitoring and budgeting
capacity; (c) to organize a course on integrated pest
management; and (d) to obtain post-graduate training in
priority areas including irrigation agronomy, biotechnology and
dryland farming.

(2)  Provision of assistance to MOA’s Department of
Extension and Information: (a) to formulate and implement a new
agricultural extension strategy; (b) to undertake pilot testing
of extension methodologies and approaches for poorer farmers
including those engaged in rainfed, mixed and livestock
farming; (c) to build capacity in extension methodology,
diagnostic skills, participatory rapid rural assessment; and
(d) to conduct special in-country courses of general interest.

(3)  Provision of assistance to MOA in monitoring the impact
of adjustment on production and incomes for key geographical
areas and farming systems by: (a) carrying out surveys of crop
budgets; (b) carrying out surveys of household income; and (c)
case studies of vulnerable populations.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

July 1, 2000                                   125,000
January 1, 2001                                130,000
July 1, 2001                                   135,000
January 1, 2002                                140,000
July 1, 2002                                   145,000
January 1, 2003                                150,000
July 1, 2003                                   155,000
January 1, 2004                                160,000
July 1, 2004                                   170,000
January 1, 2005                                175,000
July 1, 2005                                   180,000
January 1, 2006                                185,000
July 1, 2006                                   195,000
January 1, 2007                                200,000
July 1, 2007                                   205,000
January 1, 2008                                215,000
July 1, 2008                                   220,000
January 1, 2009                                230,000
July 1, 2009                                   240,000

January 1, 2010                                245,000
July 1, 2010                                   255,000
January 1, 2011                                265,000
July 1, 2011                                   275,000
January 1, 2012                                285,000
July 1, 2012                                   295,000
January 1, 2013                                305,000
July 1, 2013                                   315,000
January 1, 2014                                325,000
July 1, 2014                                   335,000
January 1, 2015                                345,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:

    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to

and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank’s prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank’s prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
furniture shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $300,000, may be awarded under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the

preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for elibigle
expenditures during the four months following the date of each
such request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining

unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.

