d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3686 PAN
                          Loan Agreement
                  (Roads Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated January 13, 1994
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3686 PAN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     (B)    the Bank has received a letter dated November 24, 1993,
from the Borrower containing a policy statement for the period 1994
through 1999, designed to reform the Borrower's transport sector,
including as an annex to such policy statement, an action plan to
carry out specific reforms in the road subsector (the Roads
Rehabilitation Action Plan), and declaring the Borrower's commitment
to the implementation of the policy statement and the Roads
Rehabilitation Action Plan;
      (C)   the Borrower has contracted with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
Page  2
to $180,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement)
entered into between the Borrower and the IDB on September 27, 1993;
and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Annual Program" means the program referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Balboa" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "CST Unit" means the transport sector coordination unit
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Eligible Inter-urban Subproject" means a specific
Inter-urban Subproject (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out
under Part B of the Project and financed with the proceeds of the
Loan and included in the Annual Program;
      (e)   "Eligible Urban Subproject" means a specific Urban
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out under Part A
of the Project and financed with the proceeds of the Loan, and
included in the Annual Program;
      (f)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter referred to in
Section 3.11 (a)(i) of this Agreement, and including as annexes
thereto, the Urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined), the
Inter-urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined), performance
indicators, and the procedures and criteria to select each Eligible
Urban Subproject and Eligible Inter-urban Subproject, providing,
inter alia, that each such Subproject shall:
            (i)   be included in the Urban Transport Program or
                  Inter-urban Transport Program, as the case may
                  be;
           (ii)   yield, at all times, an economic rate of return
                  of at least twelve percent (12%);
          (iii)   be designed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
           (iv)   be environmentally assessed by MOP, in accordance
                  with environmental guidelines, satisfactory to
Page  3
                  the Bank; and
            (v)   be technically and economically assessed by MOP,
                  in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
      (g)   "Interministerial Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between MOP (as hereinafter defined) and MGJ (as hereinafter
defined), on August 13, 1993, for the purposes of carrying out Part
A of the Project;
      (h)   "Inter-urban Subproject" means a specific project to
maintain, rehabilitate or improve the inter-urban roads included in
the Inter-urban Transport Program (as hereinafter defined);
      (i)   "Inter-urban Transport Program" means the Borrower's
1994-1997 program to maintain, rehabilitate and improve the
Borrower's inter-urban roads, included as an annex to the
Implementation Letter, as such program may be amended from time to
time in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
      (j)   "MGJ" means the Ministry of Government and Justice
(Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia) of the Borrower;
      (k)   "MIPPE" means the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy (Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica) of the
Borrower;
      (l)   "MOP" means the Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de
Obras Publicas) of the Borrower;
      (m)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "UA" means the environmental unit referred to in Section

3.06 (a) of this Agreement (Unidad Ambiental);
      (p)   "UECP" means the special coordination unit referred to
in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
      (q)   "Urban Subproject" means a specific project to maintain,
rehabilitate or improve the urban roads included in the Urban
Transport Program (as hereinafter defined); and
      (r)   "Urban Transport Program" means the Borrower's 1994-1997
program to maintain, rehabilitate and improve the Borrower's urban
roads, included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, as such
program may be amended from time to time in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
Page  4
Nacional de Panama or other commercial bank acceptable to the Bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date

                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
Page  5
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
            (i)   through MOP, carry out Parts A, B, C.1 and C.2 of
                  the Project; and
           (ii)   through MGJ, carry out Part C.3 of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the
Implementation Letter and the Interministerial Agreement (with
respect to Part A of the Project), and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, administrative, technical, safety,
maintenance, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce the Interministerial Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall select the Eligible Urban
Subprojects and the Eligible Inter-urban Subprojects in accordance
with the procedures and criteria set forth in the Implementation
Letter.
      (b)   If as a result of the environmental screening to be
carried out pursuant to the provisions of the Implementation Letter,
an Urban Subproject or an Inter-urban Subproject, as the case may
be, is determined to have a negative impact on the environment, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   prior to the initiation of the bidding process
                  for the works to be carried out under such
                  Subproject or prior to the initiation of such
                  works (if no bidding process is envisaged in
                  accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
                  this Agreement), furnish to the Bank a plan,
                  satisfactory to the Bank, to mitigate such
                  negative impact, including, if necessary, a
                  resettlement plan; and
           (ii)   upon the Bank's approval, carry out such plan in
                  accordance with its terms.
      (c)   If as a result of the technical and economical
assessments to be carried out pursuant to the provisions of the
Implementation Letter, there is a need to expropriate land for
carrying out an Urban Subproject or an Inter-urban Subproject, as
the case may be, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   prior to the initiation of the bidding process
Page  6
                  for the works to be carried out under such
                  Subproject or prior to the initiation of such
                  works (if no bidding process is envisaged in
                  accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
                  this Agreement), furnish to the Bank a plan,
                  satisfactory to the Bank, to compensate affected
                  owners or occupants; and
           (ii)   upon the Bank's approval, carry out such plan in
                  accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by no later than June 30 of
each year, starting on 1994, furnish to the Bank:
      (a)   the program, satisfactory to the Bank, of Eligible Urban
Subprojects and Eligible Inter-urban Subprojects to be financed by
the Bank during the upcoming calendar year, such program to be based
on the Urban Transport Program and Inter-urban Transport Program;
and
      (b)   the budget, satisfactory to the Bank, for the execution
of the Annual Program including allocations for maintenance
expenditures.
     Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, and
thereafter operate and maintain until completion of the Project, an

account in Balboas in Banco Nacional de Panama or other commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, for purposes of depositing and managing the counterpart
funds required to carry out the Project.
     (b)    The Borrower shall:
            (i)   provide in its annual budget, and deposit in the
                  account referred to in paragraph (a) above,
                  promptly as needed, in Balboas equivalent, as
                  counterpart funds for the execution of the
                  Project and for the maintenance of the roads
                  within the Urban Transport Program and Inter-
                  urban Transport Program, the amounts set forth in
                  Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the amounts
                  required to reimburse local taxes applicable to
                  foreign consultants hired under the Project; and
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, by no later than thirty days
                  after the annual budget for the year in question
                  has been approved, a certified copy of such
                  approved budget reflecting the amounts referred
                  to in subparagraph (i) above.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain
until completion of the Project, a Project coordination unit and an
environmental unit, both within MOP, with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
       (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that UECP and UA are at all
times headed by a project coordinator and an environmental expert,
respectively, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, all
with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by no later than
December 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval,
draft environmental guidelines. After Bank approval, the Borrower
shall apply such environmental guidelines in:
      (a)   carrying out the environmental assessment of the Urban
Subprojects and Inter-urban Subprojects (including the Eligible
Urban Subprojects and Eligible Inter-urban Subprojects); and
      (b)   monitoring the execution of all such Subprojects.
Page  7
      Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and prior to the initiation of the
bidding process for the works to be carried out under the Inter-
urban Subproject for the Quebrada Aguacate-Canitas-Bayano Area or
prior to the initiation of such works (if no bidding process is
envisaged in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement), the Borrower shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
protect the indigenous population of such area including, inter
alia, a timetable for its implementation that specifies the actions
to be undertaken prior to the initiation of any work, all in
accordance with the terms of reference set forth in the letter from
the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith; and
      (b)   upon the Bank's approval, carry out such plan in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.09. (a) By no later than December 31, 1994, the
Borrower shall operate and maintain until completion of the Project,
a transport sector coordination unit with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,

the coordination of the Borrower's investments and policies in the
transport sector.
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the CST Unit is at all
times headed by a transport sector coordinator, assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers, all with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through UECP, shall by
no later than June 30 and December 31 of each year of Project
implementation, starting in June 1994, prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, on the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project.
      Section 3.11. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall review
jointly with the Bank, by no later than September 30 of each year,
starting in 1994, excepting 1996, the progress made by the Borrower
in carrying out the Project and in achieving its objectives during
the previous year. Such review shall focus, inter alia, on:
            (i)   the matters referred to in the letter of even
                  date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank (the
                  Implementation Letter) with regard to annual
                  reviews;
           (ii)   the progress reports referred to in Section 3.10
                  of this Agreement for the respective year period;
                  and
          (iii)   the relevant Annual Programs.
      (b)   If as a result of any of the reviews referred to in
paragraph (a) above, the Bank determines that the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out the Project is not satisfactory, the
Bank may: (i) require that the Borrower prepare and furnish to the
Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments
in Project implementation; or (ii) not approve for Bank financing
the Annual Program for the subsequent calendar year.
      (c)   If the Bank decides to exercise the option referred to
in paragraph (b) (i) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
such action plan by no later than thirty days after the conclusion
of the review in question and shall thereafter carry out such action
plan in accordance with its terms.
      (d)   The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank the
overall execution of the Project and the achievement of its
Page  8
objectives, by no later than September 30, 1996. Such review shall
focus, inter alia, on:
            (i)   the matters referred to in the Implementation
                  Letter with regard to the mid-term review; and
           (ii)   the progress reports referred to in Section 3.10
                  of this Agreement, for all the preceding years.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account and the Project Account for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;
          (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and separate accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  9
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely:
      (a)   subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan
                  Agreement; or
           (ii)   the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (b)    subparagraph (a) shall not apply if the Borrower
            establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i)

            such suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-
            maturing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
            perform any of its obligations under the IDB Loan
            Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
            available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
            and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
            Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
of such Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the UECP shall have been established and staffed in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   that the Project Account shall have been opened and an
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 shall have been deposited therein;
and
      (c)   that the CST Unit shall have been created and its
personnel and functions determined, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
      Section 6.02. The date April 13, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic Policy of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
            Via Espana y Calle 52 Este
            Apartado Postal 2694
            Panama 3, Republica de Panama
Page  10
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                        By /s/ Jose A. Dominguez
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Sriram Aiyer
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                        Ratified
                        By /s/ Luis Benjamin Rosas V.
                                         Deputy Controller General
                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Works                     47,400,000      72%
(2)   Maintenance                  500,000      80%
      pilot program
      under Parts A
      and B of the
      Project
Page  11
(3)   Goods under Parts A        1,200,000      70%
      and B of the Project
(4)   Technical Assistance       5,500,000      100%
      and Training under
      Part C of the Project
(5)   Unallocated                5,400,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     60,000,000
                                ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $4,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30,
1993;
      (b)   payments made for expenditures under Part A of the
Project, except for an Eligible Urban Subproject; and
      (c)   payments made for expenditures under Part B of the
Project, except for an Eligible Inter-urban Subproject.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for works, goods and consultants' services below
$500,000, $100,000 and $100,000 equivalent, respectively, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase competition
in the road transport industry and to provide the foundation for
future regulatory reforms; (b) improve the management of the
transport sector through the coordination of investments and the
formulation of policies; (c) continue strengthening the admini-
stration and maintenance of roads, through: (i) support to MOP in
pavement management; and (ii) private sector's participation in road
maintenance; (d) assist MOP in removing the existing road main-
tenance backlog and preventing its future occurrence through the
implementation of a well-coordinated rehabilitation and maintenance
program; and (e) reduce the traffic congestion and provide more
efficient, safe and reliable passenger transport services in the
city of Panama and other major cities within the Borrower's
territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Urban Development
     Carrying out of Urban Subprojects.
Part B:     Inter-urban Roads
        Carrying out of Inter-Urban Subprojects and a maintenance
pilot program for inter-urban roads.
Part C:     Policy Reform and Institutional Strengthening
1.    Institutional strengthening of MOP, MIPPE and MGJ, by:
Page  12
      (a)   improving the management and efficiency of the
            Borrower's agencies within the transport sector; and
      (b)   coordinating all the investments in the transport
            sector.
2.   Institutional strengthening of MOP by:
      (a)   addressing and resolving environmental issues within the
            transport sector, including the training of the staff
            required therefor;
      (b)   increasing the participation of the private sector in
            the Borrower's transport sector; and
      (c)   preparing future transport sector projects.
3.    Implementation and evaluation of the Borrower's Law 14 of
May 26, 1993, on urban passenger transport.
                         *      *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning September 15, 1999
      through   September 15, 2010         2,500,000
And on March 15, 2011                      2,500,000

