d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                            CONFORMED COPY

                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3923 IN

                          Loan Agreement

               (Bombay Sewage Disposal Project)

                            between

                             INDIA

                              and

             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                        AND DEVELOPMENT

                    Dated December 28, 1995

                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3923 IN

                        LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1995, between INDIA, acting
by its  President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

          WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the International Development Association (the
Association) of even date herewith (the Development Credit
Agreement), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

          (B)  the Borrower has also requested the Association
to provide additional financial assistance toward the financing
of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifteen million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000) (the
Credit);

          (C)  the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before
disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this
Agreement are made;

          (D)  the Project will be carried out by the Municipal
Corporation of Greater Bombay (the Corporation) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the

Borrower will make available to the State of Maharashtra the
proceeds of the Loan as provided for in this Agreement and the
proceeds of the Credit as provided for in the Development
Credit Agreement; and

          WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the
Maharashtra Agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, the Bank and the State of Maharashtra and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association,
the Bank and the Corporation;

          NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                            ARTICLE I

                General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account
          of expenditures in the territories of any country
          which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
          produced in, or services supplied from, such
          territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
          to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
          if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
          the Charter of the United Nations."

     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
          under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
          would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
          III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term ’Development Credit Agreement’
means the agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes the "General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the
Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement.

                          ARTICLE II

                           The Loan

     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to one hundred sixty-seven million dollars
($167,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.

          Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

          Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31,
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

          Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

          Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued  on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)       As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

     (c)       For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period
               ending on the date immediately preceding each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this
               Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
               in which this Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and
               expressed as a percentage per annum of the
               outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
               or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund:  (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July
               1, 1989, bearing interest rates determined
               otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
               this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

          (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
          Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the preceding
          Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
          Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

          Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule
set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.

                         ARTICLE III

                   Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.  (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this
Section, Sections 2.02 (b), 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 4.01 and 4.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2 and 3
thereto are incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the
following modifications in said Sections and Schedule 2 unless
the context otherwise requires:

          (i)  the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";

          (ii) the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
               read as "Loan" and "Loan Account"; and

         (iii) the term "this Agreement" shall be read as
               "the Development Credit Agreement".

     (b)  So long as any part of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and
unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:

          (i)  all actions taken, including approvals given,
               by the Association pursuant to any of the
               Sections of, and Schedules to, the Development
               Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of
               this Section, as well as pursuant to Section
               2.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement,
               shall be deemed to be taken or
               given in the name and on behalf of both the
               Association and the Bank; and

          (ii) all information or documentation furnished
               by the Borrower to the provision pursuant to
               the provisions of any of such Sections of the
               Development Credit Agreement or Schedules
               thereto shall be deemed to be furnished to both
               the Association and the Bank.

     Section 3.02.  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out by the Corporation
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                          ARTICLE IV

                     Remedies of the Bank

     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the events set out in Section 5.01 of the

Development Credit Agreement are specified as additional
events, provided, however, that the term "Association" wherever
it appears in such Section shall be read as "Bank".

     Section 4.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the events set out in Section 5.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified as additional
events, provided, however, that the term "Association" wherever
it appears in such Section shall be read as "Bank".

                           ARTICLE V

                  Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement shall have
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.

     Section 5.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.03.  If the Development Credit Agreement
terminates prior to the termination of this Agreement, the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement referred to in
this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between
the Borrower and the Bank.

                          ARTICLE VI

          Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01.  Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

         The Secretary to the Government
             of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India

                Cable address:                         Telex:

                    ECOFAIRS                           953-3166175
                    New Delhi

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                               Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                               197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA),

                                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                                        82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                         INDIA

                         By  /s/  N. Valluri
                                     Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By  /s/  Heinz Vergin
                                Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    South Asia

                               SCHEDULE

                         Amortization Schedule

                                        Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*

February 15, 2001                            3,210,000.00
August 15, 2001                              3,325,000.00
February 15, 2002                            3,445,000.00
August 15, 2002                              3,565,000.00
February 15, 2003                            3,690,000.00
August 15, 2003                              3,820,000.00
February 15, 2004                            3,960,000.00
August 15, 2004                              4,100,000.00
February 15, 2005                            4,245,000.00
August 15, 2005                              4,395,000.00
February 15, 2006                            4,550,000.00
August 15, 2006                              4,710,000.00
February 15, 2007                            4,880,000.00
August 15, 2007                              5,050,000.00
February 15, 2008                            5,230,000.00
August 15, 2008                              5,415,000.00
February 15, 2009                            5,605,000.00
August 15, 2009                              5,805,000.00
February 15, 2010                            6,010,000.00
August 15, 2010                              6,225,000.00
February 15, 2011                            6,445,000.00
August 15, 2011                              6,675,000.00
February 15, 2012                            6,910,000.00
August 15, 2012                              7,155,000.00
February 15, 2013                            7,410,000.00
August 15, 2013                              7,670,000.00
February 15, 2014                            7,945,000.00
August 15, 2014                              8,225,000.00
February 15, 2015                            8,515,000.00
August 15, 2015                              8,815,000.00

*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective  dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                    Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be repaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                                         The interest rate (expressed as
                                         a percentage per annum) applicable
                                         to the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                               0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                                 0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but                                  0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but                                  0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                               1.00
     maturity

