d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                             CONFORMED COPY

                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3887 IND

                                 Loan Agreement

                      (Book and Reading Development Project)

                                     between

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                        and

                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT

                               Dated June 29, 1995

                                                        Loan Number 3887 IND

                       LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:

            þExcept as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise

            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations.þ

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)    An extraordinary situation shall have
      arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
      Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
      Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the Borrowerþs fiscal
year commencing April 1 and ending March 31; and

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE II

                            The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred thirty two
million five hundred thousand dollars ($132,500,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit
account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 2000,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the

Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                    ending on the date immediately preceding each
                    date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                    in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                    after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                    or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                    to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                    loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                    1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                    otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                    this Section.

            (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                    the second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                    "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                    "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."

                    "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III

                          Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through its Directorate General for Primary and Secondary
Education in the Ministry of Education and Culture with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational and publishing
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
continuation of the activities under the Project;

      (b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                             Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year, the report of such
                    audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                    such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                    requested; and

            (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records and
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of

statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;

            (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal
                    year in which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                    Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

            (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                                 Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia

            Cable address:                        Telex:

                    FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                    Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, NW
            Washington, DC 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                        Telex:

                    INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, DC                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                          By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                  Authorized Representative

                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                          By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                     East Asia and Pacific

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                 Dollar              to be
      Category                 Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Textbooks and            100,000,000          75%
      teachers’ guides
      for junior
      secondary schools
      under Part A.2
      of the Project

(2)   Books and                  7,300,000          80%
      educational
      promotional
      materials
      under Parts B
      and C of
      the Project

(3)   Training:

      (a)  Overseas                300,000          100%

      (b)  Local                 1,400,000          80%

(4)   Project                    4,100,000          100%
      management
      support

(5)   Incremental                2,200,000          50%
      operating
      costs

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(6)   Consultants’
      services:

      (a) for Part A.2           6,500,000          100%
          of the Project
          and for
          Project
          monitoring

      (b) for Part A.3           1,500,000          80%
          and A.4 of
          the Project

(7)   Unallocated                9,200,000

      TOTAL                    132,500,000

2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "Project management support" means
expenditures for travel, per diem, and honoraria for the staff
of the central Project management unit, the Book Center Project
implementation unit, and the provincial Project implementation
units; and

      (d)   the term "Incremental operating costs" means
operation and maintenance costs for the central Project
management unit, the Book Center Project implementation unit,
and the provincial Project implementation units.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts valued at less than
$200,000 equivalent; (ii) training; (iii)  Project  management
support; (iv) incremental operating costs; and (iv) contracts
for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than
$100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of
individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.

                                 SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
improve the quality of education for primary and junior
secondary school children through the production and
distribution of more and better quality textbooks, the increase
of their availability in the classroom, and the increase of
their use by teachers in implementing the curriculum.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Improving Textbook Availability and Quality

1.    Production and distribution of textbooks and teachers’
guides to primary schools.

2.    Production and distribution of textbooks and teachers’
guides to junior secondary schools, and provision of related
consultants’ services.

3.    Evaluation of quality and contents of textbooks for junior
secondary schools developed by private and public publishers,
and provision of related consultantsþ services.

4.    Strengthening the capacity of the Borrowerþs Book Center
in the Ministry of Education and Culture to carry out its
activities of setting and maintaining quality control standards
for the educational publishing industry, through training of
Book Center staff and provision of related consultantsþ
services.

Part B: Reading Promotion

1.    Training of writers, editors and publishers in writing,
editing, illustrating and publishing childrenþs books.

2.    Production and distribution of multi-media educational
materials to promote reading, especially by children.

Part C: Teacher Education

      Production and distribution of multi-media educational
materials for in-service training of teachers.

                                    * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by April 1, 2000.

                                 SCHEDULE 3

                            Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

February 1, 2001                                  2,550,000
August 1, 2001                                    2,640,000
February 1, 2002                                  2,730,000
August 1, 2002                                    2,830,000
February 1, 2003                                  2,930,000
August 1, 2003                                    3,035,000
February 1, 2004                                  3,140,000
August 1, 2004                                    3,250,000
February 1, 2005                                  3,365,000
August 1, 2005                                    3,485,000
February 1, 2006                                  3,610,000
August 1, 2006                                    3,735,000
February 1, 2007                                  3,870,000
August 1, 2007                                    4,005,000
February 1, 2008                                  4,150,000
August 1, 2008                                    4,295,000
February 1, 2009                                  4,450,000
August 1, 2009                                    4,605,000
February 1, 2010                                  4,770,000
August 1, 2010                                    4,940,000
February 1, 2011                                  5,115,000
August 1, 2011                                    5,295,000
February 1, 2012                                  5,485,000

August 1, 2012                                    5,675,000
February 1, 2013                                  5,880,000
August 1, 2013                                    6,085,000
February 1, 2014                                  6,305,000
August 1, 2014                                    6,525,000
February 1, 2015                                  6,755,000
August 1, 2015                                    6,995,000
_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                           Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                    Premium

                                      The interest rate
                                      (expressed as a
                                      percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan
                                      on the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:

Not more than three years                         0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                         0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                           0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                        0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                        0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                         1.00
      maturity

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                    Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A: General

      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.

Part B: International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:

      (a)   Grouping of Contracts

      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more each.

      (b)   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

Part C: Other Procurement Procedures

1.    National Competitive Bidding

      Production and distribution of textbooks and teachersþ
guides estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract and $25,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
and educational promotional materials estimated to cost less
than $200,000 equivalent per contract and $3,500,000 equivalent
or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.    National Shopping

      Production and distribution of textbooks and teachers'
guides estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract and $10,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
and educational promotional materials estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract and $500,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.    Direct Contracting

      Development of educational promotional materials estimated
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and
$5,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph.

2.    Prior Reviews

      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and the first contract by
each Province for goods to be financed by the proceeds of the
Loan, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be
used.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by April 1 in each year, commencing on April 1, 1997,
and, thereafter, during the implementation of the Project,
carry out technical audits of Project implementation, in a
manner acceptable to the Bank; and

      (b)   furnish a copy of such audit to the Bank, for
comments, by July 1 of each such year.

2.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Bank, by October 1, 1995, indicators
and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for
monitoring and evaluation of the Project;

      (b)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

      (c)    by January 31, 1998,  under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring  and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and

      (d)   by March 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank
shall request, review with the Bank the report referred to in
paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bankþs views on the matter.

3.    For purposes of carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than October 1, 1995, establish, and,
thereafter, maintain within its Ministry of Education and
Culture, a National Textbook Evaluation Committee in accordance
with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

4.    The Borrower shall, not later than October 1, 1995,
establish and, thereafter, maintain until the completion of the
Project, a Project management unit in the Directorate General
of Primary and Secondary Education in the Ministry of Education
and Culture and a Project implementation unit in the Book
Center of the Ministry of Education and Culture, with competent
staff in adequate numbers and with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.

5.    The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1995,
establish and, thereafter, maintain until the completion of the
Project, in each of the provincial offices of the Ministry of
Education and Culture: (i) a Project implementation unit with
competent staff in adequate numbers and with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, including related consultantsþ
services, and (ii) a procurement committee with competent staff
in adequate numbers and with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank.

                                 SCHEDULE 6

                               Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$12,000,000.

2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the

Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                    withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
                    under the respective eligible Categories, and
                    in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
                    have been justified by said documents and
                    other evidence.

4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall

have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.     (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.

