d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4077 KZ

                              Loan Agreement

                     (Treasury Modernization Project)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN

                                    and

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated August 22, 1996

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4077 KZ

                                LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 1996, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
KAZAKSTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                ARTICLE I

                     General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     (b)       The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures

          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."

     (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
          Articles of Agreement."

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;

     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated July 14, 1994, and July 23, 1994, between the Bank and
the Borrower;

     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (d)  "Working Group" means the group referred to in Section 3.01
(b) (i) of this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE II

                               The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of fifteen million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($15,800,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Prepara-
tion Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all
unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per

annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the pre-
ceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
               preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."

               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
               such Quarter."

               "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
               commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
               in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                               ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOF with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and information technology practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain a working group (Working Group) within the MOF
               until the completion of the Project, and ensure that the
               Working Group functions at all times in accordance with
               procedures and with staff that are necessary to meet the
               objectives of the Project and satisfactory to the Bank;
               and

         (ii)  adopt such selection procedures and terms and conditions
               for the training of the Borrowers’ staff as may be
               necessary and appropriate for the implementation of
               Parts A, B, and C of the Project, and satisfactory to
               the Bank.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of
the Project; and

     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;

     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31, 1998, a report inte-
grating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities per-
formed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period pre-
ceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and

     (c)  review with the Bank, by April 30, 1998, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and

expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

     (b)   The Borrower shall:

           (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                Bank;

           (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                each such year, the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and

         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

         (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
               records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                                 Termination

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                     Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance

          97 Ablai-Khan Av.
          Almaty, 480091
          Republic of Kazakstan

                                   Telex:

                                   251 245 FILIN

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

              INTBAFRAD            248423 (RCA)
              Washington, D.C.      82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688 (TRT)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                    REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN

                    By /s/ Bolat Nurgaliyev
                                                Authorized Representative

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia

                               SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                 Dollar              to be
     Category                  Equivalent)          Financed

(1) Goods                      11,400,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                items procured
                                                locally

(2) Consultants’                2,500,000       100%
    services and
    training

(3) Refunding of                1,000,000       Amount due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(4) Unallocated                   900,000
                               __________

     TOTAL                     15,800,000
                               ==========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may be made in respect of
Category (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after April 5, 1996.

4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods
and services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.

                              SCHEDULE 2

                      Description of the Project

     The objective of the Project is to support improvements in the
Borrower’s treasury system that provide comprehensive, reliable and
timely financial management information and that help to effectively
manage government expenditures.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Design of the Computerized Treasury System

     Provision of technical services for completing the design of a
computerized treasury system.

Part B:   Installation and Testing of a Pilot Computerized Treasury
          System

     Installation and testing of a pilot computerized treasury system,
and provision of goods and services required therefor.

Part C:   Installation and Testing of a Complete Computerized Treasury
          System

     Installation and testing of a complete computerized treasury system,
through the provision of goods and services required therefor.

                                 * * *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.

                               SCHEDULE 3

                          Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in Dollars)*

On January 1, 2002                         305,000
On July 1, 2002                            315,000
On January 1, 2003                         330,000
On July 1, 2003                            340,000
On January 1, 2004                         350,000
On July 1, 2004                            365,000
On January 1, 2005                         375,000
On July 1, 2005                            390,000
On January 1, 2006                         405,000
On July 1, 2006                            415,000
On January 1, 2007                         430,000
On July 1, 2007                            445,000
On January 1, 2008                         465,000
On July 1, 2008                            480,000
On January 1, 2009                         495,000
On July 1, 2009                            515,000
On January 1, 2010                         530,000
On July 1, 2010                            550,000
On January 1, 2011                         570,000
On July 1, 2011                            590,000
On January 1, 2012                         610,000
On July 1, 2012                            630,000
On January 1, 2013                         650,000
On July 1, 2013                            675,000
On January 1, 2014                         700,000
On July 1, 2014                            725,000
On January 1, 2015                         750,000
On July 1, 2015                            775,000
On January 1, 2016                         800,000
And on July 1, 2016                        825,000

_____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum) applicable
                              to the Loan on the day of prepay-
                              ment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                   0.80
     more than 16 years

     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                   0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.     Procurement of Goods

Part A:   General

     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits," published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in
January 1996 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.

Part B:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   International Shopping

     Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.

2.   National Shopping

     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.

3.   Direct Contracting

      Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment, and goods which are of a proprietary
nature, and costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may,
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Procurement Planning

     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.   Prior Review

     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the first two contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each, and each

contract for goods procured under direct contracting procedures, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

3.   Post Review

     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

1.   Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; and (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                              SCHEDULE 5

                           Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit

into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;

     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special

Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

