d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                             CONFORMED COPY

                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3993-JO

                               LOAN AGREEMENT

                        (Export Development Project)

                                   between

                       THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                     and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated April 12, 1996

                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3993-JO

                               LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1996, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 7,
1996, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to expand the Borrower’s
export sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program;

      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the modifications
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "CBJ" means the Central Bank of Jordan;

      (b)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Beneficiary for a Sub-project;

      (c)   "Beneficiary" means any private enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (d)   "Sub-project" means a specific investment project to
be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan;

      (e)   "Participating Bank" means any private banking
institution with which the Borrower has entered into a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" and "Subsidiary
Finance" mean, respectively, any agreement entered into between
the Borrower and a Participating Bank, pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and any loan made pursuant
to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

      (g)   "private enterprise" and "private banking
institution" mean, respectively, an enterprise or a banking
institution in which the majority of the outstanding voting
stock or other proprietary interest is not owned or controlled
by the Borrower or any of its agencies or by any entity owned
or controlled by the Borrower or any of its agencies; and

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE II

                                  The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to forty million dollars
($40,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in CBJ
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

             (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to,
                   but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                   occurring thereafter, and after the initial
                   period, each period from and including an
                   Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the
                   next following Interest Payment Date.

            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                   specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

           (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest
                   Period, the London interbank offered rate for
                   six-month deposits in dollars for value the
                   first day of such Interest Period (or, in the
                   case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                   the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                   preceding the first day of such Interest
                   Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                   and expressed as a percentage per annum.

            (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                   Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of
                   1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average
                   margin, for such Interest Period, below (or
                   above) the London interbank offered rates, or
                   other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
                   in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings
                   or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
                   fund single currency loans or portions thereof
                   made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
                   determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                   percentage per annum.

      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon
the determination thereof.

      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to
in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply
a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the
Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. CBJ is designated as representative of the

Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE III

                          Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, economic, financial, environmental
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitations thereto, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                             Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to
                   in paragraph (a) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                   Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Loan Account or payment out of
                   the Special Accounts was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                   receipts and other documents) evidencing
                   such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to
                   examine such records; and

          (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                            Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                         Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Agreement
within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that at least two Subsidiary Financing
Agreements have been executed on behalf of, and are legally
binding upon, the Borrower and the Participating Banks.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VII

                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

            Cable address:                       Telex:

              Ministry of Planning               21319 JO
              Amman

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D. C.  20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                       Telex:

              INTBAFRAD                          248423 (MCI)
              Washington, D.C.                    64145 (MCI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.

                         THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                         By/s/ Fayez Tarawneh
                                                  Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By/s/ Inder Sud
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                               Middle East and North Africa

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amount of the Loan to such Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated             % of
                                 (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category                      Dollars)           to be Financed

    Goods, works and               40,000,000        100% of foreign
    consultants’ services                            expenditures
                                                     and 90% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     goods and works, and
                                                     100% for consultants’
                                                     services

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under all contracts, under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                 SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

    The objective of the Project is to assist in financing such
investment projects as will contribute to expansion of
productive capacity for exports.

    The Project consists of the following part, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:

    The financing of investment projects to expand productive
capacity for exports through loans to private enterprises,
other than those operating within the housing and real estate
subsectors.

                                   *  *  *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                                 SCHEDULE 3

                            Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
                                                 (Expressed in
Date Payment Due                                     dollars)

July 15, 2001                                        840,000
January 15, 2002                                     865,000
July 15, 2002                                        895,000
January 15, 2003                                     920,000
July 15, 2003                                        945,000
January 15, 2004                                     975,000
July 15, 2004                                      1,005,000
January 15, 2005                                   1,035,000
July 15, 2005                                      1,065,000
January 15, 2006                                   1,095,000
July 15, 2006                                      1,130,000
January 15, 2007                                   1,165,000
July 15, 2007                                      1,200,000
January 15, 2008                                   1,235,000
July 15, 2008                                      1,270,000
January 15, 2009                                   1,310,000
July 15, 2009                                      1,350,000
January 15, 2010                                   1,390,000
July 15, 2010                                      1,430,000
January 15, 2011                                   1,475,000
July 15, 2011                                      1,520,000
January 15, 2012                                   1,565,000
July 15, 2012                                      1,610,000

January 15, 2013                                   1,660,000
July 15, 2013                                      1,710,000
January 15, 2014                                   1,760,000
July 15, 2014                                      1,810,000
January 15, 2015                                   1,865,000
July 15, 2015                                      1,925,000
January 15, 2016                                   1,980,000

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                           Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the
purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

1.    The Borrower shall: (a) maintain procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators agreed with the Bank, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank: (i) by November 30 of each
year, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a)
above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period of 12 months preceding the date of
such report, and (ii) on or about November 30, 1997, a mid-term
report, integrating the data and other information contained in
the reports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) (i) above, on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the
period preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
during the period following such date; and (c) review with the
Bank each such report and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of such report and the Bank’s
views on the matter.

2.    The Project shall be carried out by the Borrower through
CBJ.  For this purpose, the Borrower shall maintain
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with CBJ pursuant to
which CBJ shall: (a) undertake to maintain a separate unit,
with resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
to be responsible for the carrying out of CBJ’s activities
under the Project, and (b) act as the fiscal agent of the
Borrower in making available proceeds of the Loan to the
Participating Banks on the terms and conditions specified
herein. Such arrangements shall also provide that CBJ shall
retain out of the amounts of interest paid by the Participating
Banks under the respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements the
equivalent of 0.25% per annum of the amounts relent to said
Banks under said Agreements to cover CBJ’s fees as fiscal
agent.

3.    For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall, through CBJ:

      (a)   relend to the Participating Banks the equivalent of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
Category of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each such Participating
Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank and which shall include, without limitation, those
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;

      (b)   monitor the overall execution of the Project and the
carrying out by the Participating Banks of their undertakings
pursuant to their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank;

      (c)   take or cause to be taken all action necessary or
appropriate on its part to enable the Participating Banks to
perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreements all the obligations of the
Participating Banks therein set forth, and not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance; and

      (d)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any
provision thereof.

                             ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

                   Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                       Subsidiary Financing Agreements

      The principal terms and conditions set forth in this
Schedule shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

A.    Terms

1.    The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of
the Loan to a Participating Bank under its respective
Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be:

      (a)   the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the
principal of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof;
and

      (b)   denominated in dollars and in the currency of the
Borrower, with the portion thereof denominated in dollars being
the sum total of Sub-loans made out of its proceeds and
denominated in dollars, and with the portion thereof
denominated in the currency of the Borrower being the sum total
of the Sub-loans made out of its proceeds and denominated in
the currency of the Borrower.

2.    The portion of the Subsidiary Finance denominated in: (a)
dollars shall be charged on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during
each six-month period commencing on January 15 and July 15 of
each calendar year, at a rate equal to the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars plus a margin,
all as shall be determined from time to time pursuant to
guidelines agreed with the Bank; and (b) the currency of the
Borrower shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during
each six-month period commencing January 15 and July 15 of each
calendar year, at a rate to be determined from time to time
pursuant to a formula agreed with the Bank.

3.    The Subsidiary Finance shall be charged on the principal
amount thereof not withdrawn from time to time, a commitment
charge at a rate equal to the rate applicable to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

4.    The Subsidiary Finance shall be repaid in accordance with
an amortization schedule pursuant to which each portion thereof
utilized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have a maturity
calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable
to such Sub-loan.

5.    The right of a Participating Bank to the use of the
proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a)
suspended upon failure of such Participating Bank to perform
any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with the

legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations;
and (b) terminated if such right shall have been suspended
pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of
60 days.

B.    Conditions

1.    A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with
a private banking institution, duly established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower, which CBJ shall have
determined, on the basis of guidelines agreed with the Bank,
that such banking institution:

      (a)   is in compliance with the legal and regulatory
requirements applicable to its operations, including the
capital adequacy requirements;

      (b)   has had its financial statements, for its fiscal year
preceding the year within which its respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreement is to be entered into, audited by
independent auditors with the report thereof being unqualified;
and

      (c)   has  the organization, management, staff and other
resources required for the efficient carrying out of its
activities to be undertaken under the Project.

2.     Each respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall
contain provisions pursuant to which each respective
Participating Bank shall undertake to:

      (a)   carry out its activities under the Project and
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
appropriate financial standards and practices, and to provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose;

      (b)   (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Attachment to this Annex; (ii)
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement and achieve the
purpose of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any
provision thereof, without prior approval of CBJ; and (iv)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the
carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and CBJ;

      (c)   (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such
information to, CBJ, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank
or CBJ, with regard to the progress of its activities under the
Project, the performance of its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Project; and (ii) promptly
inform CBJ of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of its activities under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and

      (d)   (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its
operations and financial condition; (ii) have its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to CBJ (iii)
furnish to CBJ, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, certified
copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year
as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in
such scope and detail as the Bank or CBJ shall have reasonably

requested; and (iv) furnish to CBJ such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or CBJ shall from time
to time reasonably request.

                    ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

                    Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans

      The provisions of this Attachment shall apply for the
purposes of paragraph 2 (b) (i) of Part B of the Annex to
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall: (a) be
denominated and be equivalent in dollars or in the currency of
the Borrower (determined as of the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan account or payment out of the Special
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and
services financed out of such proceeds for the Sub-project; and
(b) not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate determined by the Participating Bank making
such Sub-loan in accordance with its applicable investment and
lending policies and practices; and (b) made for a period
determined pursuant to said policies and practices and not
exceeding seven years, inclusive of a grace period of up to
three years.

3.    No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
the application and information required under paragraph 4 (a)
of this Attachment in respect of such Sub-loan, or

      (b)   the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan
(as hereinafter defined) which CBJ shall have authorized and
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180
days prior to the date on which CBJ shall have received the
request and information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this
Attachment in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the
purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be any Sub-loan to
be made by a respective Participating Bank other than the first
two Sub-loans to be so made by such Participating Bank.

4.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit
Sub-loan, to the Bank for approval, the Participating Bank
shall furnish to the Bank, through CBJ, an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of
the Sub-project; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor; and (iv) any such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request to CBJ for authorization in respect of
a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description
of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall
be presented to the Bank or CBJ, as the case may be, not later
than January 31, 1999.

5.    Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries, who each shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Participating Bank
making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
the Bank, that:

      (a)   it is creditworthy, as indicated, inter alia, through
an audit of its financial statements carried out in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles acceptable to the
Participating Bank, and has the resources required for the
efficient carrying out of its operations, including the
carrying out of the Sub-project; and

      (b)   it is able and has undertaken to maintain a total
debt to equity ratio of not more than 2:1 and a debt service
ratio of at least 1:3.

6.    Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each
determined by the Participating Bank making the Sub-loan, on
the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to be:

      (a)   technically feasible and economically, and
financially viable and designed to enhance cost and quality
competitiveness of the Beneficiary;

      (b)   in compliance with environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank, and with all applicable laws and
regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and
environmental protection; and

      (c)   calculated to have an internal rate of return of at
least 15%.

7.    Sub-loans shall each be made on terms whereby the
Participating Bank making the Sub-loan shall obtain, by written
contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect
its interest and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including,
as appropriate, the right to:

      (a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate technical, environmental, economical, financial and
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other
resources required for the purpose;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the normal commercial practices of the
Beneficiary at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them, and (ii) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;

      (c)   inspect by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if, the Bank shall so request, the goods and the
sites, works, plans and construction included in the Sub-
project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;

      (d)   require that the Beneficiary shall take out and
maintain such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice,
including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair

such goods;

      (e)   require the Beneficiary to (i) have its financial
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Participating Bank, and
(ii) furnish to the Participating Bank, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Participating Bank shall have reasonably requested;

      (f)   obtain all such information as the Bank or CBJ shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-
project; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Participating Bank.

                                 SCHEDULE 5

                               Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means the Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Sub-projects and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the

                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Category, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shallbe made until the 

Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.

                                 SCHEDULE 6

                   Modifications of the General Conditions

      The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set
forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of
      the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 4 to the Loan
      Agreement, the Bank or CBJ, as the case may be, shall, in
      respect of any portion of the Loan; (i) have received no
      applications or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of
      said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications
      or requests. The Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
      the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to
      submit such applications or to authorize such requests or
      to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
      be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
      Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of
      the Loan shall be cancelled."

