d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBERS 4107 - 0 UA
4107 - 1 UA

Loan Agreement

(Export Development Project)

between

and

 STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May 15, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBERS 4107  -  0 UA
   4107  -  1 UA

AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 

DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE (the Borrower).

WHEREAS (A) Ukraine (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as 

to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

(B)

by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and

WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 

extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 

Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 

in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

(a)

"Export Development Sub-loan" or "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed 

to be made by the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Category (3) of  the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the expenditures incurred by 
a Beneficiary Enterprise for goods, works, and services under an Export Development 
Sub-Project;

(b)

"free-limit Sub-loan" means an Export Development Sub-loan Sub-loan (as 

so defined) proposed to be made in an amount less than the threshold specified for 
prior Bank review under paragraph 1 (b) of Section III of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and qualifying to be madefor an Export-Development Sub-project which 
qualifies to be approved by the Borrower in the absence of such prior review pursuant 
to the provisions of such paragraph;

(c)

"EDF" means the export development technical assistance Ffund to be 

established pursuant to Part A of the Project and to be utilized for financing the 
Export Development Export Development TA Sub-projectTA Sub-projects;

(d)

"Cost-sharing EDF Grant" means a grant, made or proposed to be made by 
the Borrower through the EDEF out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for purposes of financing all or a portion of the expenditures incurred by 
a Beneficiary Enterprise under anan Export Development Export Development TA 
Sub-project;

(e)

"Cost-sharing Grant Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 

paragraph 2  of  Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

(f)

"Beneficiary Enterprise" means an enterprise, satisfying the appropriate 
criteria as set forth in Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, andor in Section I 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as applicable, and to which the Borrower proposes to 
make or has made an Export Development Sub-loan or Cost-sharing EDF Grant;

(g)

"Sub-project" means an Export Development Sub-project or an Export 

Development Export Development TA Sub-project, as the case may be;

(h)

"Export Development Sub-Project" means a specific project, selected in 
accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary Enterprise utilizing, in whole or in part,, in whole or in part 
through the utilization of the proceeds of an Export Development Sub-loan;

(i)

"Export Development TA Sub-project" means a specific project, selected in 

accordance with Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, which is proposed to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary Enterprise utilizing, in whole or in part,, in whole or in part 
through the utilization of the proceeds of a Cost-Sharing EDF Grant;

(j)

"Statutes" means the Decree No. 29/92 of the President of Ukraine dated 

January 3, 1992, establishing the Export-Import Bank of Ukraine; the Charter of the 
Borrower registered with the National Bank of Ukraine on January 23, 1992; and such 
other laws, decrees, licenses, charter or regulations governing the operations of the 
Borrower as may be adopted or enacted from time to time;

"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

(k)
this Agreement;

Republic of Germany;

(b) of this Agreement; 

(a) of this Agreement; 

case may be;

(l)

 "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" each means the lawful currency of the Federal 

(m)

"DEM Loan Tranche" means the amount of the Loan specified in Section 2.01 

(n)

"USD Loan Tranche" means the amount of the loan specified in Section 2.01 

(o)

"Loan Tranche" means the DEM Loan Tranche or the USD Loan Tranche, as the 

(q)

(r)

(p)

"International Accounting Standards" or "IAS" mean the accounting 

standards issued or endorsed by the International Accounting Standards Committee;

"BIS" means the Bank for International Settlements; and

"Insider" means any member of the supervisory board, executive board, or 

day-to-day  management of the Borrower, or any person closely related to any of the 
above-mentioned persons, or legal persons controlled by the above-mentioned persons.; 

(s)

"Export Development Sub-loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to 

in paragraph 3 of  Section II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

(t)

"Agency Agreement" means the agreement dated September 19, 1996, between 

the Borrower and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, represented by the Ministry of 
Finance of Ukraine, establishing a procedure for inter-governmental lending activities 
by the Borrower on behalf of the Guarantor, and defining the mechanisms to be used to 
protect the Borrower entitled _______________________________, and dated __________, 
1996from financial risks which might be borne by the Borrower in connection with such 
agency lending;

(u)

"Export Services Department" means a department within the Borrower 

established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 8 of April 9, 1996, or any 
successor to such department; ˇ
Borrower established pursuant to Order No. 219 of the Chairman of the Board of the 
Borrower, of September 20, 1996, or any successor to such unit; and

"PMU" means a project management unit of the 

(v)

(w)

"Qualifying Expenditures" means the reasonable cost of goods, works and 

services required for the carrying out of a Sub-project, provided that such 
expenditures are actually made or incurred by the Beneficiary Enterprise and are for 
items qualifying according to the applicable eligibility criteria referred to in this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 

conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree(cid:31)ment, the following amounts:

(a)

(b)

an amount equal to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000); and

an amount equal to fifteen million Deutsche Marks (DEM 15,000,000).

Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 

in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 

(i) 

  amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid)

                    by the Borrower on account of a withdrawal made by a
                    Beneficiary Enterprise under an Export Development
                    Sub-loan under Part C of the Project or a Cost-sharing EDF
                    Grant under Part A of the Project, to finance the costs of
                    Qualifying Expenditures incurred by a Beneficiary
                    Enterprise for goods, works and services required for a
                    Sub-project qualifying according to the provisions of this
                    Agreement; and 

      (ii)    expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be

                    made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
                    required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out
                    of the proceeds of the Loan.

(b)

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 

the single currency of each Loan Tranche a special deposit account, each in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.

Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 

of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of:  
(i) the USD Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Interest Period equal to USD LIBOR Base Rate plus USD LIBOR Total Spread; and 
(ii) the DEM Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Interest Period equal to DEM LIBOR Base Rate plus DEM LIBOR Total Spread.

      (b)

For the purposes of this Section:

(i)

  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and

                    including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
                    the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and
                    after the initial period, each period from and including
                    an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next
                    following Interest Payment Date.

                    Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

(ii)

  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in

(iii)   "USD LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the

                    London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
                    Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
                    (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                    the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding
                    the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
                    determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
                    annum. 

(iv)

 "USD LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:

                   (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
                   plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
                   Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
                   rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
                   respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions
                   thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans
                   or portions thereof made by it that include the USD Loan
                   Tranche; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                   as a percentage per annum.

(v)

  "DEM LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the

                    London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
                    Deutsche Mark for value the first day of such Interest 
                    Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
                    for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
                    preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
                    reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
                    percentage per annum. 

(vi)

  "DEM LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: 

                    (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
                    plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
                    Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
                    rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
                    in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
                    portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
                    currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                    the DEM Loan Tranche; as reasonably determined by the Bank
                    and expressed as a percentage per annum.

      (c)
USD LIBOR Total Spread, DEM LIBOR Base Rate, and DEM LIBOR Total Spread for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of USD LIBOR Base Rate, 

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

      (d)
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 

of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on April 15 and 
October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

Execution of the Project; Management and Operations of the Borrower

ARTICLE III

Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 

Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and conduct its operations and 
affairs in accordance with sound financial, economic, and administrative standards 
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with its Statutes.

Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 

Agreement, and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall, for the purposes of carrying out the Project:

(a)

 Sselect the Beneficiary Enterprises proposing to carry out Export 
Development Sub-projects under Part C of the Project, make the Sub-loans to such 
Beneficiary Enterprises, and administer the same in accordance with its own prudential 
guidelines and in accordance with the criteria, procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

(b)

Sselect the Beneficiary Enterprises proposing to carry out Export 

Development TA Sub-projects under Part A of the Project, make the Cost-sharing EDF 
Grants to such Beneficiary Enterprises, and administer the same in accordance with its 
own prudential guidelines and in accordance with the criteria, procedures and the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Section 3.03. (a) For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, by 
March 31, 1997, have concludedconclude an agreement satisfactory to the Bank, with an 
experienced foreign export-import bank or another suitable institution or 
institutions, providing for the entering into by the Borrower of a twinningn 
arrangement with such bank or other institutions providing for the carrying out of a 
comprehensive plan for institution building through the establishment of a close 
relationship between the Borrower and such bank or other institutions.

(b)

The Borrower shall  exercise its rights and perform its obligations under 

the agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.03 and the Agency 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the agreement referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section 3.03 or the Agency Agreement, or any provisions 
thereof. ˇ
shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Export Services Department 
and the PMU, and ensure that the Export Services Department and the PMU function at 
all times in a manner, under terms of reference, and with staffing and budgetary 
resources necessary and appropriate for Project implementation, and satisfactory to 
the Bank.

Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 

Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: 

(a)

procurement of the consultants’ services required for Part B of the 

Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 

(b)

procurement of the goods, works and services required for the carrying 

out of Export Development Sub-projects and to be financed under the Export Development 
Sub-loans, and procurement of the goods and services required for the carrying out of 
Export Development TA Sub-projects and to be financed under the Cost-sharing EDF 
Grants shall be governed by the provisions of Annex A to Schedule 65 and Annex A to 
Schedule 56, respectively.

Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 

without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

(a)

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

 ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

 Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained procedures 

and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each 
Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), and to 
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained accounting standards and procedures 
acceptable to the practices [acceptable to the Bank]Bank the operations and financial 
condition of the Borrower.

Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

      (i)

  have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this

                    Agreement, its accounts and financial state(cid:31)ments (balance
                    sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
                    statements) and records and accounts for the Special 
                    Accounts for each fiscal year audited in accordance with 
                    auditing principles [acceptable to the Bank]standards and 
                    procedures acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors with qualifications, experience and 
                    terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;

    (ii)

  furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case

                    not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
                    year, (A) certified copies of said financial statements 
                    for such year as so audited and (B) the, and (B) an 
                    opinion on such statements and a report of such audit by 
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
                    Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

   (iii)

  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 

                    such records, accounts and financial statements, and the 
                    audit thereof, and said auditors, as the Bank shall from
                    time to time reasonably request.

(b)

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

      (i)

  maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this 

                    Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such 
                    expenditures;

     (ii)

  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 

                    received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                    last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
                    records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
                    other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

    (iii)
                    and

  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;

     (iv)

  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 

                    annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
                    and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
                    expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
                    with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
                    their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
                    related withdrawals.

Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, 

during the implementation of the Project, take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as 
shall be necessary to maintainachieve by the date specified, and thereafter maintain, 
the following indicators of sound financial performance:

(a)

minimum BIS risk-weighted capital (as defined by IAS) adequacy ratio of 

six percent (6%) by December 31, 1996, seven percent (7%) by December 31, 1997, and 
eight percent (8%)  by December 31, 1998 and any year thereafter, and for any year 
subsequent thereto;

(b)

single-borrower exposure as a percentage of IAS equity capital of no more 

than forty percent (40%) by December 31, 1996, thirty-five percent (35%) by December 
31, 1997, thirty percent (30%) by December 31, 1998, and twenty-five percent (25%) by 
December 31, 1999, and any year thereafterfor any year subsequent thereto; and

(c)

aggregate exposure to Insiders of no more than twenty percent (20%) of 
IAS equity capital as of December 31, 1996, and fifteen percent (15%) as of December 
31, 1997 and any year thereafter, and for any year subsequent thereto.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 

following additional event is specified, namely that the Statutes of the Borrower 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or 
its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement.

Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 

hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Board and the First Deputy Chairman of the 

Board of the Borrower are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 

11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Bank:

International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
  64145 (MCI) 

For the Borrower: 

State Export-Import Bank 
    of Ukraine
8, Kreschatik Str.
Kyiv, 252001

Ukraine

Telex:

1331258 RICA

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 

representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky

Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE

By /s/ Alexander N. Sorokin
       Ildar Kh. Usmanov

Authorized Representatives

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                 Amount of the 

                         Dollar Loan

                   Allocated

Amount of the
Deutsche Mark              

Allocated

       % of

                        (Expressed in
         Category

       Dollars)

(Expressed in    Expenditures
DM)

   to be Financed

50,000,000

15,000,000

   100%

Cost-sharing EDF
Grants under Part A
of the Project

(1)

(2)
 

Goods and services 5,000,000
financed under 
Cost-sharing EDF
Grants pursuant to 
Part A of the 
Project

0

   For goods: 100% of

                     foreign expenditures,
                     100% of local expend-
               itures (ex-factory
                     cost) and 80% of

                           local expenditures

         for other items

                                                         procured locally;

                           For services:  100%

 (2)

Consultants’    2,500,000
services for
Part B of the
Project

(3)

Export Development  7,500,000
Sub-loans under Part C
of the Project

0

   100%

50,000,000

   100%

(4)

Unallocated    2,500,000

0

 

TOTAL              60,000,000

15,000,000

2.
made in respect of : 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

(a)

a  Sub-loan for expenditures under any Export Development Sub-project, 

unless the Sub-project has been approved, and Sub-loan therefor has been made,in 
respect of any expenditures by a Beneficiary Enterprise proposed to be financed under 
a  Sub-loan, unless the Sub-loan therefor has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 

(b)

any Cost-sharing EDF Grant expenditures under an Export Development TA 

Sub-project,in respect of any expenditures by a Beneficiary Enterprise proposed to be 
financed under a Cost-sharing EDF Grant, unless the Export Development TA Sub-project 
for which such Cost-sharing EDF Grant is proposed to be made has been approved in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and

(c)

in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 

Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of $7,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred before that date but after September 1, 1996.

3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works financed under 
the Export Development Sub-loans or goods financed under the Cost-sharing EDF Grants, 
under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; or (b) consultants’ services under 
contracts not exceeding (i) $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and (ii) $50,000 
equivalent for individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out a 
coordinated strategy for the development of the productive capacity of export-oriented 
enterprises in the private sector of Ukraine’s economy by providing an integrated 
package of information, technical assistance, and financial support to selected 
private and privatized enterprises on the territory of Ukraine having export 
development potential.

The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 

thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Export Development Technical Assistance Fund (EDF)

AThe establishment and operation of a technical assistance fund for the 

financing of Export Development TA Sub-projects through grants to the Beneficiary 
Enterprises, enabling such Beneficiary Enterprises to finance part of the costs 
related to the preparation and implementation of export development plans.

Part B:

Institutional Development of the Borrower

Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to enable it to become a 

leading export support and financing institution in Ukraine, and to strengthen the 
capacity of the Borrower to implement the Project.

Part C:  Export Development Credit Facility 

AThe provision of a credit facility for the financing of Export Development 
Sub-loans to the Beneficiary Enterprises, enabling such Beneficiary Enterprises to 
finance the costs related to the carrying out of Export Development 
Sub-projectsprojects for export development.

                 *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)

Date Payment Due

 

On each  April 15 and October 15

beginning April 15, 2002
through April 15, 2013

2,500,000

2,500,000

On October 15, 2013

            2,500,000

______________

*
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 

**
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Deutsche Mark to be repaid, 

SCHEDULE 4

Selection and Employment 

of Consultants for Part B of the Project

(Institutional Development of the Borrower)

1.
ConsultantsThe consultants for Part B of the Project shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be 
employed, such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, the provisions of the Consultant 
Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall 
not apply to contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, daissaid exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts,; (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms, (c) ; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank, or (d) ; or (d)  amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consultants raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.

SCHEDULE 5

Eligibility, Approval Procedures and Principal
Terms and Conditions of Export Development
Sub-loans under Part C of the Project
Export Development Credit Facility)

Section I.

Eligibility and Approval Procedures

No expenditures for an Export Development Sub-project shall be eligible for 

1.
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Export Development Sub-loan for 
such Export Development Sub-project: 

(a)

shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have 
been made not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date on which 
the Borrower shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 2# (ba) of this Section in respect of such an Export Development Sub-loan; 
or

(b)

shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized 

withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date on which the Borrower 
shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 2 (ba) of 
this Section in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a "free-limit Sub-loan" shall be any Export Development Sub-loan, other 
than the first five such Export Development Sub-loans approved after the Effective 
Date of the Loan, in an amount which shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $2,500,000 
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed , where 
the Export Development Sub-loan amount does not exceed the sum of $2,500,000 
equivalent.and other than any Sub-loan to a Beneficiary Enterprise in an amount 
exceeding the sum of $2,500,000 equivalent (when added to all other free-limit 
Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
same Beneficiary Enterprise), the foregoing amount being subject to change from time 
to time as determined by the Bank.

(a)

When presenting an Export Development Sub-loan (other than a free-limit 

2.
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the 
Beneficiary Enterprise and an appraisal of the Export Development Sub-project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Export Development 
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

(b)

Each Export Development Sub-loan shall be approved on the basis of a 

business plan incorporating an export development plan which shall be evaluated by the 
Borrower in accordance with established guidelines for credit evaluation adopted by 
the Borrower satisfactory to the Bank.

(c)

Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi(cid:31)sions of this 

paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 2001.

(a)

Export Development Sub-loans shall be made to the Beneficiary Enterprises 

3.
which each shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower that: (i) it is 
a Private Enterprise; (ii) it will have a maximum debt-equity ratio of 70-:30 it is a 
Private Enterprise (as defined below in this paragraph); (ii) it will have a ratio of 
debt to equity (after receipt of the Export Development Sub-loan) no greater than 
70:30; and (iii) it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Export Development 
Sub-project.  

(b)

For purposes of this paragraph:

(i)

  an enterprise shall be considered to be a "Private 

 
                    Enterprise" where more than 50%fifty percent (50%) of the 
                    shares or other equity interest thereof is held by persons
                    or companies other than the Guarantor, any agency or 
                    subdivision thereof, or any local governmental authority, 
                    or entities controlled by the Guarantor or such agencies 
                    or subdivisions.;

(ii)

  the term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower;  

(iii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
                    contract or agreement or other instrument providing for 
                    such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment, 
                    on the date, and to the extent, the amount of such debt 
                    has become outstanding pursuant to such contract, 
                    agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
                    agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 

                    guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent 
                    that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;

(iv)

  the term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired 

                    paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the 
                    Beneficiary Enterprise not allocated to cover specific 
                    liabilities; and

(v)

  whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be 

                    necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
                    Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such 
                    valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
                    lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, 
                    at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
                    of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
                    on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.

The Export Development Sub-loans shall be made for Export Development 
4.
Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, to:

(a)

be technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 

viable;

(b) 

be targeted towards generation of exports consistent with an export 

development plan acceptable to the Borrower;

(c)

be in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental 

protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor; 

(d)

have a projected financial rate of return of at least 15%fifteen percent 

(15%), where the Export Development Sub-loan is to finance an investment project; and

(e)

have, during the term of the Export Development Sub-loan, cash generation 

sufficient to allow the Beneficiary Enterprise to maintain a debt-service coverage 
ratio of at least 1-:1.5.

Section II.

Terms and Conditions  of Export Development Sub-Loans

The principal amount of either each Export Development Sub-loan made out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (3) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  shall: (a) be denominated in 
either Dollars or Deutsche Mark, as may be determined by the Borrower; (b) be the 
equivalent, in Dollars or Deutsche Mark, as the case may be, as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special  
Accountsrespective Special Account, of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out on account of the goods, works and services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan for the Export Development Sub-project;

Each Export Development Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal 

2.
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at such a rate as may be 
determined by the Borrower on the basis of its assessment of market conditions and 
risk management;

Export Development Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall 

3.
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means (an Export Development Sub-loan Agreement), rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borroweits interests and those of the Bank and the 
Guarantor, including the right to:

(a)

require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out and operate the 

facilities financed under the Export Development Sub-project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards 
and to maintain adequate records;

(b)

require: (i) that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to 
this Schedule; and (ii) that such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Export Development Sub-project;

(c)

inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 

Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 

included in the Export Development Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;

(d)

require that: (i) the Beneficiary Enterprise shall take out and maintain 

with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;

(e)

obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Export Development Sub-project; and

(f)

suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the use 

of the proceeds of the LSub-loan upon failure by such Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under the Export Development Sub-loan Agreement with the Borrower.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Export Development 

4.
Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.

Annex A to Schedule 5
to the Loan Agreement Procurement and Consultants’
Services for Export Development Sub-Projects

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

Goods and works for Export Development Sub-projects shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January 1996 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works for 

Export Development Sub-projects shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

Contracts for the procurement of goods, works and services for and works for 

1.
Export Development Sub-projects estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$2,000,000 per contract may be awarded in accordance with the established commercial 
practices of the Beneficiary  Enterprise, due account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and 
availability of maintenance and spare parts, provided, however, that such commercial 
practices include obtaining quotations from more than one supplier or contractor.

INotwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, in any of the 

2.
following circumstances, contracts for goods, and works and services for Export 
Development Sub-projects may be procured from suppliers on the basis of negotiated 
contractsdirect contracting without competition (single source), pursuant to 
procedures acceptable to the Bank:

(a)

when the equipment and spare parts being procured are of a proprietary 

nature;

(b)

when there is a transfer of technology and licensing situation involved, 

under which critical parts have to be procured from the licensee, until and unless 
exempted by the license from such restriction;

(c)

when there is a general lead contractor involved forresponsible for the 
carrying out of an Export Development Sub-project, and where such lead contractor has 
specified specialized parts as quality/performance preconditions, to the extent 

necessary to procure such specialized parts;

(d)

when the existing stock of machinery and equipment is predominantly from 
a single source and new additional equipment and machinery must be compatible with the 
existing equipment, in the interest of standardization, and efficient performance for 
purposes of consistency and efficiency with respect to maintenance;

(e)

when an existing contract already awarded under the Bank procurement 

rules would require extension for provision of additional goods, works or services, at 
the same terms and conditions;

(f)

when competitive bidding procedures have failed to produce more than one 

bid, and a direct contract is necessary; and 

(g)

when emergency procurement is required, such as in case of critical 

breakdowns.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

With respect to: (i) the first five contracts for goods and works to be procured 

pursuant to the provisions of this Annex; (ii) all contracts procured under Part B of 
this Annex; and (iii) all contracts for goods and works procured under Part C, 
paragraph 2 of this Annex and estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.

2.

Prior Review

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

Consultants’ services for Export Development Sub-projects shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

SCHEDULE 6

Eligibility, Approval Procedures and Terms and 
Conditions of Cost-Sharing EDF Grants

Section I.

Eligibility and Approval Procedures

When presenting a proposed Export Development TA Sub-project for approval, the 

1.
Beneficiary Enterprise shall furnish to the Borrower an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary 
Enterprise and the proposed Export Development TA Sub-project, including a description 
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Cost-sharing 
EDF Grant; and (ii) the export development plan of such Beneficiary Enterprise.

2.
Section shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 2001.

Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 

Cost-sharing EDF Grants shall be made to Beneficiary Enterprises who each shall 

3.
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower that it is a Private 
Exporternterprise (as defined in paragraph 3 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement). 

Cost-sharing EDF Grants shall be made for Export Development TA Sub-projects 

4.
which are consistent with an export development plan approved by the Borrower in 
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.

Cost-sharing EDF Grants shall be made on the condition that the Beneficiary 

5.
Enterprise shall be obliged to cover at least 50%required to pay for at least fifty 
percent (50%) of the costs of the Export Development TA Sub-project as a cost-sharing 
contribution to the carrying out of the Export Development TA Sub-project, in 
accordance with a methodology and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

6.
No expenditures for an Export Development TA Sub-project shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Cost-sharing EDF Grant for such 
sub-project shall have been approved by the Borrower and such expenditures shall have 
been made not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date on which 
the Borrower shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 1 of this Section in respect of such Cost-sharing EDF Grant.

Section II.

Terms and Conditions of Cost-sharing EDF Grants

The amount of a Cost-sharing EDF Grant shall: (a) be denominated in dDollars; 

1.
(b) be valued as the equivalent, in Dollars as of the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account B, of the value 
of the currency so withdrawn or paid out on account of goods and services financed out 
of the proceeds of the Cost-sharing EDF Grant for the Export Development TA 
Sub-project; and (c) not exceed a maximum amount of $250,000 per Beneficiary 
Enterprise, unless otherwise approved by the Bank.

Cost-sharing EDF Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall 

2.
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means (the Cost-sharing Grant Agreement), rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:

(a)

require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out the Export Development TA 

Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;

(b)

require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 

proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to 
this Schedule 6; and (ii) that such goods and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Export Development TA Sub-project;

(c)

inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 

Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites included in the Export Development TA 
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

(d)

require that: (i) the Beneficiary Enterprise shall take out and maintain 

with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;

(e)

obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 

Export Development TA Sub-project; and

(f)

suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Enterprise to the use 

of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under the Cost-sharing Grant Agreement. 

Each Cost-sharing Grant Agreement shall require that the Beneficiary Enterprise 

3.
contribute at least fifty percent (50%) of the costs of the Export Development TA 
Sub-project.

The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Export Development TA 

4.
Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borroweits interests and those of the Bank and the Guarantor; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.

Annex A to Schedule 6
to the Loan Agreement Procurement and
Consultants’ Services for Export
Development TA Sub-Projects

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

Part A:

Procurement Procedures

Contracts for the procurement of goods, works and services for Export 

1.
Development TA Sub-projects estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 
per contract shall be awarded in accordance with the established commercial practices 
of the Beneficiary  Enterprise, due account being taken also of other relevant factors 
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof and availability of 
maintenance and spare parts.

Part B:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 

contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

With respect to tThe first five contracts for goods, and all contracts proposed 
to be financed out of the EDF, as well as any contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply proposed to be financed out the EDF, shall be 
subject to prior review by the Bank, in accordance with such procedures as may be 
specified from time to time by the Bank.

2.

Prior Review

3.

Post Review

With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 

procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its signing and prior to 
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan 
Account in respect of such contract, one conformed copy of such contract together with 
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request. Where payments for the contract 
are to be made out of a Special Account, a copy of the contract, together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Bank, shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to delivery to the Bank of the first replenishment application in respect of 
such contract. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract or the 
contract itself is not consistent with the Loan Agreement, promptly inform the 
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination. These provisions shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures, for which case all such documents shall be 
retained by the Borrower for subsequent examination by independent auditors and Bank 
supervision missions.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.
Consultants’ services for Export Development TA Sub-projects shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

SCHEDULE 7

Special Accounts

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

(a)

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (13) in the 

case of Special Account A, and Category (3) in the case of Special Account B, such 
categories being set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;

(b)

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

(c)

the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000; (ii) an amount equivalent to DEM 1,500,000, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account B pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
DEM 800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of DEM 2,500,000.

2.
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 

3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:

(a)

For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 

to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

(b)

(i) 

  For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the

                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits 
                    into the respective Special Account at such intervals as 
                    the Bank shall specify.

      (ii) 

  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower

                    shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                    required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                    shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the respective Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
                    shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
                    to have been paid out of the respective Special Account
                    for eligible expenditures. 

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

(a)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

(b)

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

period of time specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;

(c)

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 

6.
respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the respective Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

(b)

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

(c)

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special Account.

(d)

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 8

Modifications of the General Conditions

For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 

modified as follows:

The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower or the Guarantor terminate 

the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:

"or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 2 of Section I 

of  Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Loan: (i) have received no applications or requests permitted under sub-paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of said paragraph 2; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applications 
or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with 
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

