d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

                                                        CONFORMED COPY

                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4026 MOR

                             Loan Agreement

                       Social Priorities Program
         (Coordination and Monitoring of Social Programs, and
                        Labor Promotion Project)

                                 between

                            KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                   and

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Dated September 27, 1996

                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4026 MOR

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1996, between Kingdom of Morocco
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

     (B)  by a loan agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan for the
basic health project (the Health Loan Agreement) to assist in the
financing of activities related to the Borrower’s Social Priorities
Program (Barnamaj Al Aoulaouiyat Al Ijtimaiya, hereinafter called
the BAJ);

     (C)  by a loan agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan for the
basic education project (the Education Loan Agreement) to assist
in the financing of activities related to the BAJ; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:

     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:

          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expendi-
          tures in the territories of any country which is not a
          member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose
          of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
          of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of
          the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."

     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subpara-
graph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Dirham" means the currency of the Borrower;

     (b)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period starting July
1 and ending June 30 of the following calendar year;

     (c)  "Observatory" means the observatory for monitoring living
conditions established within the statistical department of the
Ministry of the Borrower responsible for Population;

     (d)  "Promotion Nationale" means an institution under the
Ministry of Interior of the Borrower, created by a Dahir of July
15, 1961 and responsible for labor-intensive public works program;

     (e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (f)  "Secretariat" means the unit within the Borrower’s
Department of Programming of the Ministry of Population responsible
for the monitoring and coordination of the BAJ;

     (g)  "Selected Provinces" mean the provinces of Ouarzazate,
Taroudant, Tiznit, Al Haouz, Chichaoua, Essaouira, Safi, Azilal,
Chefchaouen, Sidi Kacem, Al Hoceima, El Kelaa Sraghna and Taza; and

     (h)  "Project and Program Indicators" mean the indicators agreed
upon by the Borrower and the Bank.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal

valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dirhams a special deposit account in its General
Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, Special Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
              date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
              2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
              Period in which this Agreement is signed.

         (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reason-
              ably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
              per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
              drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
              or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund:
              (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may be
              made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
              rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
              (a) of this Section.

        (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
              months of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
          a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
          Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
          outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
          at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE III

                       Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its
Ministry responsible for Interior and its Ministry responsible for
Population with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, environmental and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and

     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                             Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of

               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;

        (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
               records; and

         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such Fiscal Year, together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.

                                  ARTICLE V

                                 Termination

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance and External Investments
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco

          Cable address:              Telex:

               MINISTERE FINANCES     36936 M

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:              Telex:

               INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

               By /s/ Mohamed Kabbaj
                                                Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the lump-sum or percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the      Lump-sum or
                           Loan Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in     Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed

(1)  Civil Works:

     (a)  for activities     14,000,000      lump-sum in
           listed under para-                accordance with
           graph 2 (c) below                 paragraph 2 (c)
                                             below

     (b)  for activities      1,000,000      100% of foreign
           not listed under para-            expenditures and
           graph 2 (c) below                 70% of local
                                             expenditures

(2)  Equipment                6,000,000      100% of foreign
                                             expenditures and
                                             70% of local
                                             expenditures

(3)  Consultants’ services,   5,000,000      100%
     surveys and training

(4)  Unallocated              2,000,000
                             __________

          TOTAL              28,000,000
                             ==========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

     (c)  the term "lump-sum" means for each activity listed below
and eligible under Category 1 (a) of the table under paragraph 1
above, the corresponding amount per unit, expressed in Dirhams, to
be disbursed under the Loan:

Category 1 (a): Civil works

Activities                       Lump sum disbursement

Water wells and water related works      45,000

Communal ablution blocks                 35,000

Dams                                     60,000

Community centers                       220,000

Dirt roads (per km)                      60,000

Reforestation (per hectare)              15,000

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,800,000 may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures twelve (12) months
before that date.

4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures
for activities listed under paragraph 2 (c) above irrespective of
the value of the contracts pursuant to which such expenditures are
incurred; and (b) for expenditures under contracts costing less than
$500,000 equivalent for works and goods and $100,000 equivalent for
services of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for services of
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to improve basic infrastructure
and reduce unemployment in rural areas of Selected Provinces, to
coordinate Program activities, to strengthen the monitoring of
socioeconomic standards of the population, and to raise awareness of
social issues.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Promotion Nationale

1.   Selected strengthening of supplemental works to upgrade the
Program’s education and health activities through Promotion Nationale.

2.   Participation of Promotion Nationale to literacy campaigns in
long-term and large-scale construction sites.

3.   Strengthening the monitoring capacity of Promotion Nationale
through the implementation of an integrated program management and
geographical information system, the acquisition of equipment

thereof and the delivery of training workshops.

Part B:   Statistical Monitoring

1.   Establishment of an Observatory within the Department of
Statistics of the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Population to monitor household living conditions and analyze
the effects of social policy measures on the well-being of the
population, and acquisition of equipment, computers, office
furniture and vehicles thereto.

2.   Carrying out of a living standards measurement survey to
establish key socioeconomic indicators for the planning,
monitoring and analysis of economic and social policies and
programs, acquisition of equipment, computers and supplies for
regional mobile teams, and support for field work.

Part C:   Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Program

1.   Institutional support to the Secretariat of the Social Strategy
Monitoring Committee of the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for
Population to enable such Secretariat to assist said Committee in
the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Program.

2.   Establishment by the Secretariat of an integrated program
management and geographical information system.

3.   Carrying out of surveys and impact assessment studies on the
Program.

4.   Organization of training and sensitization workshops.

5.   Technical strengthening of the Secretariat through the provision
of equipment and computers, office furniture and vehicles.

                                  * * *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.

                               SCHEDULE 3

                          Amortization Schedule*

                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)

     November 15, 2001                    545,000
     May 15, 2002                         560,000
     November 15, 2002                    580,000
     May 15, 2003                         600,000
     November 15, 2003                    625,000
     May 15, 2004                         645,000
     November 15, 2004                    665,000
     May 15, 2005                         690,000
     November 15, 2005                    715,000
     May 15, 2006                         740,000
     November 15, 2006                    765,000
     May 15, 2007                         790,000
     November 15, 2007                    820,000
     May 15, 2008                         850,000
     November 15, 2008                    880,000
     May 15, 2009                         910,000
     November 15, 2009                    940,000
     May 15, 2010                         975,000
     November 15, 2010                  1,005,000
     May 15, 2011                       1,045,000
     November 15, 2011                  1,080,000
     May 15, 2012                       1,115,000
     November 15, 2012                  1,155,000
     May 15, 2013                       1,195,000
     November 15, 2013                  1,240,000

     May 15, 2014                       1,280,000
     November 15, 2014                  1,325,000
     May 15, 2015                       1,370,000
     November 15, 2015                  1,420,000
     May 15, 2016                       1,475,000

______________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                        Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

     Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                 The interest rate (expressed
                                 as a percentage per annum)
                                 applicable to the Loan on
                                 the day of prepayment multi-
                                 plied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but not            0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before            1.00
     maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   General

     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B:   International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods other
than furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.

2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of

this Part B.

     (a)  Grouping of contracts

     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.

     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods

     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.

     (c)  Notification and Advertising

     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   National Competitive Bidding

     (a)  (i) Furniture, and (ii) other goods estimated to cost less
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent for both, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

     (b)  Works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provision of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.

2.   National Shopping

     Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.

3.   Direct Contracting

     Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

4.   Force Account

     Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guide-
lines, and costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may,
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Procurement Planning

     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.   Prior Review

     With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.   Post Review

     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.   Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                  SCHEDULE 5

                            Implementation Program

1.   The Borrower shall:

     (a)  monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
adequate procedures and indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;

     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30,
1999: (i) a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date, including an evaluation of the activities
of the Observatory and a review of its status; and (ii) a multisectoral
summary report prepared by the Secretariat on progress achieved by the
Program; and

     (c)  review with the Bank, by December 31, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

2.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the
Borrower shall, starting in 1997 and by September 30 of each year,
submit to the Bank: (a) an annual implementation report including:
(i) a review of progress achieved in the implementation of the
Project based on the Project and Program Indicators; (ii) projected

sector and Project expenditures for the year; and (iii) activities
programmed under the Project in the Selected Provinces; and (b) a
qualitative assessment of progress achieved in the execution of the
Program prepared by the Secretariat on the basis of the sectoral
reports.

3.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and com-
ments by March 31, 1997, an action plan comprising measures to improve
procurement, payment and disbursement procedures of the Borrower, and
start implementation, not later than October 31, 1997, of those
measures that shall have been agreed with the Bank.

4.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996: (i) appoint
a BAJ coordinator within the Ministry of Interior; and (ii) take all
necessary measures for the appointment of a BAJ focal point in each
one of the Selected Provinces.

5.   The Borrower shall cause the Secretariat to: (i) launch, together
with the Ministries of the Borrower responsible for Interior,
Employment and Social Affairs, Health and Education, not later than
December 31, 1997, an integrated program management and geographic
information system, with appropriate staffing therefor; and (ii)
initiate two beneficiary assessments, the first one to be concluded
before the preparation of the report for mid-term review referred to
under paragraph 1 (b) (ii) above, and the second one to be concluded
by completion of the Project.

6.   The Borrower shall, starting with its Fiscal Year 1996/1997,
earmark the expenditures for the activities financed under the
Project in the respective budgets of the Ministry of Interior and
Population.

7.   The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to reduce, by
December 31, 2000, the share of Promotion Nationale’s activities
devoted to urban community works to 20% of its budget.

                                 SCHEDULE 6

                               Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower

shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.

         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
               from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other  evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;

     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;

     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or

     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this

Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

