d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

                                                             CONFORMED COPY

                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3959 POL

                               Loan Agreement

                         (Power Transmission Project)

                                    between

                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT

                                      and

                           POLISH POWER GRID COMPANY

                            Dated January 25, 1996

                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3959 POL

                                LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POLISH
POWER GRID COMPANY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                       General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                   "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit
established by the Borrower on July 15, 1994;

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Statutes" means the corporate statutes of the
Borrower, dated September 28, 1990, as amended to the date of
this Agreement; and

      (d)   "UCPTE" means the Union for Coordination of
Production and Transmission of Electricity established on May
25, 1951.

                                 ARTICLE II

                                  The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred sixty million
dollars ($160,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and related services, and consultants’ services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower, may for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Deutsche Marks (DM) a special deposit
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on

behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after
                   July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and
            the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE III

                          Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, public utility, and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

      Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and related services, and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, by December 31, 1996, a comprehensive
program including detailed guidelines, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the rehabilitation of the 110 kV network in
conjunction with the rehabilitation of the 400 and 220 kV
networks; and (b) issue such guidelines by June 30, 1997;

      (b)   prepare, by June 30, 1996, a program, satisfactory to
the Bank, to introduce environmentally constrained economic
dispatching in its operations and implement this by December
31, 1996; and

      (c)   prepare, by December 31, 1995, a study, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the use of Poly-
Chlorinated Biphenyls for the 110 kV distribution network in
the territory of the Guarantor.

      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;

      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and

      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,

taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                  Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and engineering and public utility
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall present, by
June 30, 1996, a comprehensive proposal, satisfactory to the
Bank, to introduce a sound corporate financial management
organization and implement this by December 31, 1996.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

                                 ARTICLE V

                             Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of
                   income and expenses and related statements) and
                   the records and accounts for the Special
                   Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                   and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the

                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall produce, for each fiscal year, funds
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the
annual average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred,
or expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal
year and the next following fiscal year.

      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the
Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means
                   the difference between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance and taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                         provision for depreciation and other non-
                         cash operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                         working capital other than cash and other
                         cash outflows other than capital
                         expenditures.

            (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in

                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

            (iii)  The term "working capital other than cash"
                   means the difference between current assets
                   excluding cash and current liabilities at the
                   end of each fiscal year.

            (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable
                   or could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments
                   in lieu of taxes, and dividends.

            (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

            (vii)  The term "capital expenditures" means
                   all expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.

            (viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at
                   the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless the net
revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever is greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including
the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.

            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
                   a loan contract or agreement or other
                   instrument providing for such debt or for the
                   modification of its terms of payment on the
                   date of such contract, agreement or instrument;
                   and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
                   date the agreement providing for such guarantee
                   has been entered into.

            (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference

                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations adjusted to take
                         account of the Borrower’s rates in effect
                         at the time of the incurrence of debt even
                         though they were not in effect during the
                         twelve-month period to which such revenues
                         relate and net non-operating income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.

            (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

            (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at
                   the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

                                  ARTICLE VI

                             Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to effect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.

                                 ARTICLE VII

                                 Termination

      Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VIII

                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:

            Polish Power Grid Company
            Polskie Sieci
              Elektroenergetyczne SA
            00-496 Warszawa, ul
            Mysia 2
            Republic of Poland

                                           Telex:

                                           814611 b palm pl

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above
written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Paul Knotter
                                                  Authorized Representative

                         POLISH POWER GRID COMPANY

                         By /s/ Zbigniew Bicki
                            /s/ Zbigniew Kedzierski
                                                 Authorized Representatives

                                 SCHEDULE 1

                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of

                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods and                 115,000,000        100% of foreign
    related services                             expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 85% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for items procured
                                                 locally

(2) Consultants’                3,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

(3) Interest and other         30,000,000        Amount due
    charges on the                               pursuant to
    Loan accrued                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    on or before                                 of this Agreement
    November 14, 2001

(4) Unallocated                12,000,000
                              ___________

         TOTAL                160,000,000
                              ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor
for goods and related services or consultants’ services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods and related services
or consultants’ services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,000,000
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April
1, 1995.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and related services not
exceeding $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                 SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the
reliability of the existing high voltage grid through
rehabilitation and reinforcement; (b) enhance security of power
supply in Poland by interconnecting the Polish power grid with
that of Western Europe, thus improving Poland’s power export
and wheeling capability; (c) improve the network’s operational
performance and control through transmission loss reduction and
improved dispatching, thereby enhancing energy conservation and
efficiency; (d) reduce environmental pollution; and (e) enhance
the Borrower’s institutional capabilities.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to

such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

1.    Implementation of a substation modernization program
consisting of: (i) modernization of strategic substations in
the Western and Central-Western regions of the territory of the
Guarantor to meet the design performance levels required for
system reliability and international interconnections; and (ii)
shunt reactive compensation at specific substations to ensure
steady voltage control and avoid having to switch off 400 kV
lines under light load conditions.

2.    Rehabilitation and upgrading of 220 kV lines to achieve
overall system performance levels and interconnect major
substations for dispatch purposes.

3.    Strengthening the institutional capabilities of the
Borrower in the areas of project and financial management
through technical assistance and training.

                                  *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.

                                 SCHEDULE 3

                            Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*

May 15, 2000                                      3,855,000
November 15, 2000                                 3,990,000
May 15, 2001                                      4,130,000
November 15, 2001                                 4,275,000
May 15, 2002                                      4,430,000
November 15, 2002                                 4,585,000
May 15, 2003                                      4,745,000
November 15, 2003                                 4,915,000
May 15, 2004                                      5,090,000
November 15, 2004                                 5,270,000
May 15, 2005                                      5,455,000
November 15, 2005                                 5,650,000
May 15, 2006                                      5,845,000
November 15, 2006                                 6,055,000
May 15, 2007                                      6,270,000
November 15, 2007                                 6,490,000
May 15, 2008                                      6,720,000
November 15, 2008                                 6,955,000
May 15, 2009                                      7,205,000
November 15, 2009                                 7,455,000
May 15, 2010                                      7,720,000
November 15, 2010                                 7,995,000
May 15, 2011                                      8,275,000
November 15, 2011                                 8,570,000
May 15, 2012                                      8,870,000
November 15, 2012                                 9,185,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                           Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                                The interest rate (expressed as a
                                percentage per annum) applicable to
                                the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                multiplied by:

Not more than three years                         0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                         0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                           0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                        0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                         1.00
      maturity

                                 SCHEDULE 4

                    Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and related
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods and related services in
accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods and related services in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A hereof,
goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items which the Bank agrees can be
obtained only through a limited number of sources up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,700,000, may be procured

under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from a list, acceptable to the Bank, of qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for items the Bank agrees are of a proprietary
nature or where compatibility with installed equipment is
required, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to: (A) consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts, single source selection of consulting firms or
individuals, assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank, amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or amendments to contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                 SCHEDULE 5

                               Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and
2 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and related
services, and consultants’ services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to DM 6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to DM
3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $20,000,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant

                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of                    
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.

