d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

CONFORMED COPY

 LOAN NUMBER 4177 RO

Loan Agreement

(Social Protection Adjustment Loan)

between

ROMANIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated July 1, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4177 RO

      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1997, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 3, 1997 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s social sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 

      (B)
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
as hereinafter provided;

on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 

meanings therein set forth.  

ARTICLE II

The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million Dollars ($50,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program.

The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 

      (b) 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.

The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 

      (c)
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

      (b)

For the purpose of this Section:

             (i)  “Interest Period” means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
                  first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter and, after
                  the initial period, each period from and including an
                  Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the next following
                  Interest Payment date.

     (ii)  “Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section

                  2.06 of this Agreement.

           (iii)  “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the
                  London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
                  Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or,
                  in the case of the initial Period, for value the Interest
                  Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of
                  such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                  and expressed as a percentage per annum.

            (iv)  “LIBOR  Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A)
                  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the
                  weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or
                  above) the London interbank offered rates, or other
                  reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
                  Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated 
                  by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
                  thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
                  determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
                  annum.

      (c)
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Whenever, in the light of changes in market practice affecting the 

      (d)
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Particular Covenants

Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 

request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.

      (b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 

      (c)
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.

      Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

      (a)
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 

furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 

      (b)
six (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

      (c)
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.

furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 

ARTICLE IV

Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.

ARTICLE V

Termination

ARTICLE VI

Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 

Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 

Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Ministry of Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania 

       Telex:

11230

For the Bank:

International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

ROMANIA

By /s/  Mircea Geoana

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay

Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Excluded Expenditures

For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 

shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:

1. 
the territory of the Borrower;

expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from 

expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 

2.
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or  credit;

expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 

3.
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 

or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

Group      Subgroup

Description of Items

112            -

Alcoholic beverages

121            -

Tobacco, unmanu-

       factured, tobacco
       refuse

122            -

Tobacco, manufactured 

       (whether or not
       containing tobacco
       substitutes)

525            -

Radioactive and 

       associated materials

667

        -

718        718.7

       Pearls, precious and
       semiprecious
       stones, unworked
       or worked

Nuclear reactors, and 

       parts thereof; fuel 
       elements (cartridges),
       non-irradiated, for
       nuclear reactors

728        728.43

Tobacco processing

       machinery

897        897.3

Jewelry of gold, 
      silver or platinum
      group metals (except
      watches and watch
      cases) and
      goldsmiths’ or 
      silversmiths’
      wares (including 
      set gems)

971           -

Gold, non-monetary

      (excluding gold
      ores and concentrates)

4.
luxury consumption;

expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 

5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);

expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 

6.
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and

expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 

7.
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

     Payment of Principal Date

Payment Due

(expressed in Dollars)*

November 15, 2002
May 15, 2003
November 15, 2003
May 15, 2004
November 15, 2004
May 15, 2005
November 15, 2005
May 15, 2006
November 15, 2006
May 15, 2007
November 15, 2007
May 15, 2008
November 15, 2008
May 15, 2009
November 15, 2009
May 15, 2010
November 15, 2010
May 15, 2011
November 15, 2011
May 15, 2012
November 15, 2012
May 15, 2013
November 15, 2013
May 15, 2014
November 15, 2014
May 15, 2015
November 15, 2015
May 15, 2016
November 15, 2016
May 15, 2017

1,055,000
       1,090,000
1,120,000
       1,155,000
1,190,000

       1,225,000 

1,260,000

       1,295,000 

1,335,000

       1,375,000 

1,415,000

       1,460,000  

1,500,000 

       1,545,000  

1,590,000 

       1,640,000  

1,685,000 

       1,735,000  

1,790,000 

       1,840,000  

1,895,000 

       1,950,000  

2,010,000 

       2,070,000  
2,130,000  
       2,195,000  

2,260,000 

       2,325,000  

2,395,000 
       2,470,000 

____________________________________
*
as provided  in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 

