d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4170 TM

Loan Agreement

(Urban Transport Project)

between

TURKMENISTAN

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated May 29, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4170 TM

      AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1997, between TURKMENISTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

the Bank has received a letter dated June 4, 1996, from the Borrower 

      (B)
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies (the Program) for the urban 
transport sector and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; and 

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:

      "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of

      the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been

      suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
      of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after
      consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be
      required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the
      proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with
      respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
      that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives
      of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement
      or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken
      timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the
      situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
      contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
      the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that
      the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of
      the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
      the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect
      of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
      out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an
      amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or
      (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
      Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by
      notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
      Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
      giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:

      (a)
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant  to an exchange of  letters  dated 
September 20, 1996 and November 12, 1996, between the Borrower and the Bank;

"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 

      (b)
this Agreement;

"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

"APAPO" means the Ashghabat Passenger Autotransport Production 

      (c)
Organization established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 5 of the Cabinet of 
Ministers of the Borrower, dated November 11, 1996, and Registration Certificate No. 
10422, dated January 13, 1997;

      (d)
be maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5(a) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;

"PMG" means the Project Management Group, established within APAPO and to 

      (e)
be maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5(b) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;

"OSG" means the Operations Support Group, established within APAPO and to 

"Ashghabat Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 

      (f)
into between the Borrower, the Municipality of Ashghabat and APAPO in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.01 (c)(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;

"Mary Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 

      (g)
between the Borrower, APAPO and the Municipality of Mary, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;

"Chardjou Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 

      (h)
into between the Borrower, APAPO and the Municipality of Chardjou, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.01 (c)(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;

      (i)
Administration Agreement, the Mary Administration Agreement and the Chardjou 
Administration Agreement;

"Administration Agreements" means collectively the Ashghabat 

      (j)
required to realize the Project objectives, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank;

"Action Plan" means the plan of actions, included in the Program, 

"OIP" means the Operations Improvement Plan, included in the Action Plan, 

      (k)
identifying required improvements in urban transport systems and practices, and to be 
developed by MOAT and APAPO for each Municipality under the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;

      (l)

"MOAT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Auto Transport; 

"Ashghabat Transport Companies" means collectively: (i) the Ashghabat Bus 

      (m)
Company established and operating pursuant to Decree of the MOAT No. N-209, dated 
December 12, 1991, and Registration Certificate No. 8533, dated March 2, 1994; (ii) 
the Ashghabat Trolleybus Company established and operating pursuant to Decree of the 
Cabinet of Ministers No. N-8740, dated August 13, 1964, and Registration Certificate 
No. 124, dated January 17, 1994; and  (iii) the Ashghabat Minibus Company established 
and operating pursuant to Decree of the MOAT No. 66, dated October 1, 1994, and 
Registration Certificate No. 9318, dated April 18, 1995;

      (n)
operating pursuant to Decree of the MOAT No. 9, dated April 1, 1994, and Registration 
Certificate No. 88857, dated June 14, 1994;

"Mary Transport Company" means the Mary Bus Company established and 

      (o)
and operating pursuant to Decree of the MOAT No. N-129, dated July 14, 1977, and 
Registration Certificate No. 105115, dated January 23, 1994;

"Chardjou Transport Company" means the Chardjou Bus Company established 

      (p)
"Participating Transport Companies" means collectively: (i) the Ashghabat 
Transport Companies; (ii) the Mary Transport Company; and (iii) the Chardjou Transport 
Company;

(q)

"Ashghabat Performance Contract" means the contract to be concluded 

between APAPO and each of the Ashghabat Transport Companies in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (r)
APAPO and the Mary Transport Company in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

"Mary Performance Contract" means the contract to be concluded between 

      (s)
between APAPO and the Chardjou Transport Company in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

"Chardjou Performance Contract" means the contract to be concluded 

      (t)
the Mary Performance Contract or the Chardjou Performance Contract;

"Performance Contract" means any of the Ashghabat Performance Contracts, 

      (u)
the Municipality of Ashghabat and APAPO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

"Ashghabat Service Contract" means the contract to be concluded between 

      (v)
Municipality of Mary and APAPO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

"Mary Service Contract" means the contract to be concluded between the 

      (w)
the Municipality of Chardjou and APAPO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

"Chardjou Service Contract" means the contract to be concluded between 

      (x)
Service Contract of the Chardjou Service Contract; and

"Service Contract" means any of the Ashghabat Service Contracts, the Mary 

"Ashghabat Auto-Maintenance and Repair Facility" means the facility, 

      (y)
located in the Municipality of Ashghabat, for repairs of buses, established and 
operating pursuant to Decree of the MOAT No. N-113, dated April 14, 1946, and 
Registration Certificate No. 8642, dated March 24, 1994.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,  an amount equal to 
thirty-four million two hundred thousand Dollars ($34,200,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

      (b)
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
      (c)
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.

       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.

       (b)

For the purposes of this Section:

             (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
                  first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after
                  the initial period, each period from and including an
                  Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following
                  Interest Payment Date.

            (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement.

           (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
                  London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
                  Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or,
                  in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
                  Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the
                  first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
                  by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

            (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A)
                  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the
                  weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or
                  above) the London interbank offered rates, or other
                  reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                  Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated
                  by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions
                  thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
                  determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                  annum.

      (c)
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

      (d)
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 

unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 
15 in each year.

       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out under the overall supervision 
of its MOAT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate urban 
transport, environmental, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

      (b)
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)
The Borrower shall enter into an Administration Agreement with each of: 
(i) the Municipality of Ashghabat and APAPO; (ii) the Municipality of Mary and APAPO; 
and (iii) the Municipality of Chardjou and APAPO, under terms and conditions, 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.

(d)

The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Administration 

Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Administration Agreements 
or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

      (a)
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

(b)

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

Borrower on said plan.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof and (ii) cause APAPO and the Participating Transport Companies to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices: (A)  their operations and financial conditions; and (B) the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.

      (b)
Companies to:

The Borrower shall and shall cause APAPO and the Participating Transport 

             (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                  of this Section including those for the Special Account for

                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such year:

           (A)  certified copies of APAPO’s and the Participating
                       Transport Companies’ financial statements for such year
                       as so audited; and

           (B)  the report of such audit by said auditors, of such

                       scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                       reasonably requested; and

           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                  records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) above, the 

      (c)
Borrower shall cause APAPO and each of the Participating Transport Companies to: (i) 
furnish to the Bank on a quarterly basis until June 30, 1998, its income statement and 
balance sheets, prepared on the basis of its and the Borrower’s accounting standards 
and policies; (ii) ensure the preparation of the annual audit referred to in paragraph 
(b) (ii) (B) above in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) 
furnish to the Bank starting by October 1, 1997 quarterly statements with respect to 
the accounts referred to in Section 4.01(a) (ii) (B).

      (d)
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

             (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
                  and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:

(a)

A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 

or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

(b)

The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 

any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of APAPO or any of the 
Participating Transport Companies or for the suspension of their operations.

The Borrower, APAPO or the Municipalities of Ashghabat, Mary or Chardjou 
      (c)
shall have failed to carry out any of their respective obligations under the Ashghabat 
Administration Agreement, the Mary Administration Agreement or the Chardjou 
Administration Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: any event specified in paragraphs (b) or 
(c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

ARTICLE VI

Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:

      (a)
Borrower, the Municipality of Ashghabat and APAPO in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.01 (c)(i) of this Agreement;

the Ashghabat Administration Agreement has been concluded among the 

      (b)
Agreement, consultants to assist APAPO, MOAT and the Municipality of Ashghabat in 
carrying out the activities under the Project;

the Borrower has employed, pursuant to Section II of Schedule 4 to this 

      (c)
trolleybus operations to not less than 40 percent for each, excluding depreciation, as 
an average over a two month period;

the Borrower has improved cost recovery with respect to bus and 

      (d)
each of the Ashghabat Transport Companies in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

an Ashghabat Performance Contract has been concluded between APAPO and 

      (e)
Municipality of Ashghabat and APAPO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

the Ashghabat Service Contract has been concluded between the 

      (f)
the Bank, for the operation of the Ashghabat Auto-Maintenance and Repair Facility.

the Borrower has submitted to the Bank a business plan, satisfactory to 

Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the 

meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Ashghabat Administration 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the Municipality of 
Ashghabat and APAPO and is legally binding upon the Borrower, the Municipality of 
Ashghabat and APAPO in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VII

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower, 
specially authorized for this purpose by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Cabinet of Ministers
17 Bitarap Turkmenistan St.
Ashghabat,
Turkmenistan - 744000

                                        16201 (MEKAN)

Telex:

For the Bank:

International Bank for

  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)

248423 (MCI) or

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

    TURKMENISTAN

    By /s/ Yukon Huang

    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

    By /s/ Halil Ugur

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

Authorized Representative

Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

            Amount of the
           Loan Allocated    % of
             (Expressed

      Expenditures
to be Financed

Category

       in Dollars)

(1)

Goods

100% of foreign
expenditures,

      100% of local

            expenditures

      and 85% of local

(ex-factory cost)

expenditures for
other items

      procured locally

(a) under Part A(1) 21,180,000
and B(1)(a) of the
Project
(b) under Part A(2)  2,500,000
and B(2)(a) of 
the Project
(c) under Part A(3)  2,400,000
and B(2)(b) of
the Project
(d) under Part B(1)  
(b) of the Project

 2,000,000

Consultants’ services  

   590,000

      100%

Training

   300,000

100%

Refunding of Project   
Preparation Advance

      Amounts due
   600,000
            pursuant to Section

2.02 (c) of this
Agreement

 

 

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Unallocated

 4,630,000

TOTAL             34,200,000

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and

the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 

      (b)
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category 1(b), set forth  in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, until: (i) the Borrower has submitted to the Bank in relation to the 
Municipality of Mary a policy statement including OIP, investment program and Project 
implementation arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Mary Administration 
Agreement has been concluded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iii) the Bank has received an opinion or opinions that 
the Mary Administration Agreement has been duly executed by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms; (iv) the Mary Performance 
Contract has been concluded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (v) the Mary Service Contract has been concluded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (c) 
under Category 1(c), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until: 
(i) the Borrower has submitted to the Bank in relation to the Municipality of Chardjou 
a policy statement including OIP, investment program and Project implementation 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Chardjou Administration Agreement has 
been concluded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; (iii) the Bank has received an opinion or opinions that the Chardjou 
Administration Agreement has been duly executed by the parties thereto and is legally 
binding upon them in accordance with its terms; (iv) the Chardjou Performance Contract 
has been concluded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; and (v) the Chardjou Service Contract has been concluded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (d) under 
Category 1(d), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the 
Borrower has submitted to the Bank feasibility studies, including an implementation 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the automatic vehicle location and monitoring 
system and the ticketing system under the OIP for the Municipality of Ashghabat.

The Bank may require, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 

4.
by notice to the Borrower, withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $400,000 equivalent each with the exception of: (i) goods under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures; (ii) the first 
contract for goods awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; and 
(iii) goods under contracts awarded on the basis of direct contracting procedures; and 
(b) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting 
firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to improve, on a sustainable basis, the 
efficiency and cost effectiveness of urban transport in the Municipalities of 
Ashghabat, Mary and Chardjou.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Transport Vehicles

Provision of new buses and trolleybuses for: (1) the Municipality of Ashghabat; 

(2) the Municipality of Mary; and (3) the Municipality of Chardjou.

Part B:

Maintenance and Rehabilitation

(a)

Upgrading of maintenance facilities and equipment, replenishment of spare 

(1)
parts and rehabilitation and refurbishment of buses, trolleybuses and minibuses 
operated by the Ashghabat Transport Companies; and (b) provision of equipment required 
for implementation of the OIP.

Rehabilitation of buses and replenishment of spare part inventory, workshop 
(2)
tools and equipment for: (a) the Municipality of Mary; and (b) the Municipality of 
Chardjou.

Part C:

Technical Assistance and Training

Provision of technical assistance and training for the strengthening of Project 

management and implementation capabilities of the PMG, APAPO, MOAT, and the 
Municipality of Ashghabat.

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

Date Payment Due

Payment of Principal

     (Expressed in Dollars)* 

                      725,000

                      765,000

                      915,000

                      815,000

                      860,000

November 15, 2002
May 15, 2003                       745,000
November 15, 2003
May 15, 2004                       790,000
November 15, 2004
May 15, 2005                       835,000
November 15, 2005
May 15, 2006                       885,000
November 15, 2006
May 15, 2007                       940,000
November 15, 2007
May 15, 2008                       995,000
November 15, 2008
May 15, 2009                     1,055,000
November 15, 2009
May 15, 2010                     1,120,000
November 15, 2010
May 15, 2011                     1,190,000
November 15, 2011
May 15, 2012                     1,260,000
November 15, 2012
May 15, 2013                     1,335,000
November 15, 2013
May 15, 2014                     1,415,000
November 15, 2014
May 15, 2015                     1,500,000
November 15, 2015
May 15, 2016                     1,590,000
November 15, 2016
May 15, 2017                     1,695,000

                      970,000

                    1,025,000

                    1,090,000

                    1,155,000

                    1,225,000

                    1,455,000

                    1,635,000

                    1,545,000

                    1,375,000

                    1,295,000

____________________________

*
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods

Part A:

General

      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 

1.
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 

Notification and Advertising

      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

International Shopping

Spare parts estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to 

an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent and workshop, computer and 
other tools and equipment estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

2.

National Shopping

Spare parts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 

an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, and workshop, computer and 
other tools and equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.

Direct Contracting

Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 

existing equipment and costing $700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for goods to be procured on the basis of 

international competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods to be procured on the 

basis of international shopping procedures, and (ii) all contracts for goods to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting procedures, the following procedures shall 
apply:

      (A)

prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping

                    procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report
                    on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;

      (B)

prior to the execution of any contract procured under

                    direct contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower
                    shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and
                    the draft contract;

      (C)

in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f)

                    and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
                    apply.

3.

Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 

1.
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

The Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s MOAT, Municipality of 

1.
Ashghabat, Municipality of Mary, Municipality of Chardjou, APAPO and the Participating 
Transport Companies, all with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Municipality of Ashghabat, 
Municipality of Mary, Municipality of Chardjou, APAPO and the Participating Transport 
Companies, the goods and services financed by the Loan, on terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.

Each of the Administration Agreements shall include, inter alia, provisions for: 

2.
(a) the undertakings of each Municipality in respect of Project and Program 
implementation and maintenance of Project accounts; (b) the procurement arrangements 
under the Project; (c) in relation to the Ashghabat Administration Agreement: (i) 
budgets, records and accounts and performance obligations of APAPO and the role of the 
Municipality of Ashghabat in supervising the performance of the Ashghabat Transport 
Companies; and (ii) the obligation of APAPO to enter into an Ashghabat Performance 
Contract with each of the Ashghabat Transport Companies and the Ashghabat Service 
Contract with the Municipality of Ashghabat in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3 and 4 below, respectively; (d) in relation to the Mary Administration 
Agreement: (i) budgets, records and accounts and performance obligations of APAPO and 
the role of the Municipality of Mary in supervising the performance of the Mary 
Transport Company; and (ii) the  obligation of APAPO to enter into the Mary 
Performance Contract with the Mary Transport Company and the Mary Service Contract 
with the Municipality of Mary in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 
below, respectively; (e) in relation to the Chardjou Administration Agreement: (i) 
budgets, records and accounts and performance obligations of APAPO and the role of the 
Municipality of Chardjou in supervising the performance of the Chardjou Transport 
Company; and (ii) the obligation of APAPO to enter into the Chardjou Performance 
Contract with the Chardjou Transport Company and the Chardjou Service Contract with 
the Municipality of Chardjou in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 

below, respectively; (f) annual review of the progress in the implementation of the 
Administration Agreement, the first such review to be held no later than August 31, 
1998; and (g) modifications to the Administration Agreement, with the Bank’s prior 
approval, when such modifications are deemed necessary on the basis of the annual 
review.

Each Performance Contract to be concluded between APAPO and each of the 
3.
Participating Transport Companies shall include, inter alia, provisions for: (a) the 
undertakings of each Participating Transport Company in respect of Project and OIP 
implementation; (b) the service levels to be provided by such Company; (c) the 
methodology for tariff determination; (d) criteria for measuring operational and 
financial performance of each Participating Transport Company; (e) the obligations of 
said Companies in relation to the maintenance of facilities and the equipment; (f) the 
information to be provided by said Companies for the purpose of measuring progress in 
Project implementation and the achievement of Project objectives; (g) an annual review 
of the progress in the implementation of the Performance Contract, the first such 
review to be held no later than August 31, 1998; and (h) modifications to the 
Performance Contract, with the Bank’s prior approval, when such modifications are 
deemed necessary on the basis of the annual review.

Each Service Contract to be concluded between each Municipality and APAPO shall 

4.
include, inter alia, provisions regarding agreed criteria and standards with respect 
to: (a) identification of service areas; (b) estimation of the cost of services; (c) 
evaluation of performance of each Participating Transport Company; (d) annual review 
of the progress in the implementation of the Service Contract, the first such review 
to be held no later than August 31, 1998; and (e) modifications to the Service 
Contract, with the Bank’s prior approval, when such modifications are deemed necessary 
on the basis of the annual review.

The Borrower shall maintain: (a) the PMG, until completion of the Project, under 

5.
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and assign to it responsibility for 
overall Project implementation; (b) the OSG, until completion of the Project, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and assign to it responsibility to guide 
and monitor the performance of the Participating Transport Companies.

The Borrower shall: (a) implement the Action Plan included in the Program in 

6.
accordance with the time schedule set forth therein; and (b) exchange views with the 
Bank regularly on the implementation of such Plan with a view to agreeing on any 
adjustments required to such Plan in order to achieve the objectives of the Program 
and the Project.

The Borrower shall develop by June 30, 1997, a fare system whereby the 

7.
Participating Transport Companies are compensated directly by the municipality or 
agency exempting passengers from transportation fares.

During Project implementation, before undertaking any investments in the urban 

8.
passenger transport sector, the Borrower shall ensure: (a) the carrying out by the 
Municipality of Ashghabat, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, of 
studies on urban passenger transport investments, and the completion and furnishing to 
the Bank of the findings and recommendations of said studies before commencement of 
said investments; and (b) exchange views thereafter with the Bank on said 
recommendations with a view to determining an appropriate order of priority for 
transport investments.

During Project implementation the Borrower shall: (a) make adequate yearly 

9.
budget allocations from the central state budget for the required subsidy to APAPO; 
and (b) quarterly payments of said subsidy to APAPO.

The Borrower shall take all measures, including adjustment of public transport 

10.
fares, necessary to ensure that by December 31, 1999, each of the Participating 
Transport Companies shall generate revenues sufficient to cover at least its operation 
and maintenance costs, excluding depreciation.

11.

The Borrower shall:

      (a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

      (b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 

Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and

review with the Bank, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the 

      (c)
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 

the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 

      (b)
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $500,000 to be 

      (c)
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(i)

      (b)
                    shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                    Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                    specify.

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower

      (ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                    required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                    shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
                    as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                    been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                    been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
                    Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                    Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                    shall have been justified by said documents and other
                    evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 

eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

      (a)
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

       (b)
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

       (c)
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 

Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

       (b)
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.

       (c)
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 

       (d)
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

