d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h

t

 

u
A
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

i

l

i
l

b
u
P

d
e
z
i
r
o
h
t
u
A
 
e
r
u
s
o
c
s
D
 
c

l

i

i
l

b
u
P

CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 4171 TM

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

(Water Supply and Sanitation Project)

Loan Agreement

between

TURKMENISTAN

and

Dated May 29, 1997

LOAN AGREEMENT

LOAN NUMBER 4171 TM

      AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 1997, between TURKMENISTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated  May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:

     “Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the

            Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
            suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous

            period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines,
            after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan
            will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed
            out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank
            determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the
            proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were
            engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary
            of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such
            contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate
            action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and
            establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract
            which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
            proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that
            the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds
            of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
            referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of
            expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise
            have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan,
            or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain
            unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have
            received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
            respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the
            Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to
            make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of
            such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)
with the provisions of paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

“CCs” means the Component Coordinators to be maintained in accordance 

      (b)

“Dashkhovuz Velayet” means the Borrower’s Dashkhovuz region;

      (c)
established under Part C(2) of the Project;

“DWWA” means the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Wastewater Authority to be 

      (d)

“Manat” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;

      (e)

“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Medical Industries;

      (f)
Management; 

“MWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water 

      (g)
urban centers and individually each urban center, namely, Akdepe, Boldumsaz, Gubadagh, 
Kune-Urgench, Niyazovsk, Tagta, and Yilanly, within Dashkhovuz Velayet;

“Participating Etraps” and “Participating Etrap” mean collectively the 

      (h)
“PCC” means the Project Coordination Committee to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

“PIM” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Manual for the carrying 

      (i)
out of the Project, to be adopted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this  
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank;

      (j)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established within the MWR, 
and to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;

“Project Account” means the account to be opened by the Borrower, for the 

      (k)
purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the 
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement and 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;

      (l)
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 
5, 1996, and November 21, 1996, between the Borrower and the Bank; and

“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 

      (m)
this Agreement.

“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 

ARTICLE II

The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million three hundred thousand Dollars ($30,300,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 

      (b)
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 

      (b)

For the purposes of this Section:

             (i)  “Interest Period” means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
                  first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after
                  the initial period, each period from and including an
                  Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following
                  Interest Payment Date.

            (ii)  “Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement.

           (iii)  “LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the
                  London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
                  Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or,
                  in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
                  Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the
                  first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
                  by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.

           (iv)   “LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A)
                  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the
                  weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or
                  above) the London interbank offered rates, or other
                  reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                  Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated
                  by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions
                  thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
                  determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                  annum.

      (c)
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.

The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 

Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 

      (d)
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on May 15 and November 
15 in each year. Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOH and MWR with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate water supply and sanitation, environmental, administrative 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.

Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 

      (b)
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:

      (a)
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;

maintain in Manat a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and 

following the initial deposit provided for in Section 5.01(c) of this 

      (b)
Agreement, thereafter replenish the Project Account by depositing additional amounts 
equivalent to: (i) $300,000 on July 1, 1998; (ii) $600,000 on July 1, 1999; (iii) 
$600,000 on July 1, 2000; (iv) $600,000 on July 1, 2001; and (v) $312,000 on July 1, 
2002; and

      (c)
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project.

ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.

      Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 

      (a)
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and

     (b)
Borrower on said plan.

afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 

agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)

The Borrower shall:

             (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                  of this Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                  records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 

             (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
                  and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.

ARTICLE V

Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:

      (a)
Agreement, consultants to assist the PIU in carrying out the activities under the 
Project;

the Borrower has employed, pursuant to Section II of Schedule 4 to this 

      (b)
Bank; and

the Borrower has submitted to the Bank the draft PIM, satisfactory to the 

      (c)
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and has deposited 
into said account an initial amount equivalent to $200,000.

the Borrower has opened in Manat, through the PIU, the Project Account in 

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower, 
specially authorized for this purpose by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower, is 

designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Borrower:

Cabinet of Ministers
17 Bitarap Turkmenistan St.
Ashghabat,
Turkmenistan - 744000

        Telex:

 116201 (MEKAN)

For the Bank:

International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America

Cable address:

Telex:

INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.

248423 (MCI) or

        64145 (MCI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.

TURKMENISTAN

                    By /s/ Halil Ugur

Authorized Representative

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

By /s/ Yukon Huang

Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia

SCHEDULE 1

Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 

1.
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                 Amount of the
                Loan Allocated
                (Expressed in

Category

            Dollars)

         % of
      Expenditures
     to be Financed

Works                   19,000,000

     90%

Goods                    2,400,000

     100% of foreign

                                expenditures,
                                100% of local

(1)

(2)

                                expenditures
                                (ex-factory cost)
                                and 75% of local
                                expenditures for
                                other items procured
                                locally

Consultants’             4,400,000
services

     100%

Training

              300,000

     100%

Operating costs

       400,000

     100%

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

Refunding of                430,000
Project Prepara-
tion Advance

     Amounts due 
                  pursuant to 

                         Section 2.02 (c)

                                of this Agreement

(7)

Unallocated
            3,370,000
                         _________

           TOTAL

           30,300,000
                  ==========

2.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 

      (b)
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and

the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 

      (c)
for PIU salaries, utilities, supplies, equipment, and office rent.

the term “operating costs” means expenditures in respect of the Project 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 

3.
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Category 5 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, in excess of $80,000 equivalent during any calendar year during the period 
of Project implementation.

The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 

4.
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first three 
contracts for goods, awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; (b) 
works, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each with the exception of 
the first two contracts for small works costing the equivalent of $20,000 or more 
each; and (c) services, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants.

SCHEDULE 2

Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve water supply and sanitation in 
Participating Etraps and selected collective farms in the Dashkhovuz Velayet; and (b) 
initiate institutional changes in the water supply and sanitation sectors.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:

Part A:

Water Supply Improvements

(1)

Urban Water Supply System Improvements

      Rehabilitation of water supply systems in the Participating Etraps.

(2)

Rural Water Supply System Improvements

      Rehabilitation and expansion of water supply systems in about nine collective 
farms in the Dashkhovuz Velayet.

(3)

Operational Support

Provision of supplies, spare parts, tools, chemicals and other equipment 

essential for operation and maintenance of the water supply systems.

Part B: Sanitation and Health

(1)

Improvement of Rural Sanitation and Hygiene

Rehabilitation of latrines and installation of hand-washing basins in schools 
and markets in the Participating Etraps, and provision of equipment and training for 
improved sanitation techniques.

(2)

Health Promotion and Hygiene Education in Rural Areas

(a)

Health promotion and hygiene education in schools and markets and 

provision of equipment and training in health promotion; and 

(b)

rehabilitation and improvement of operations of the Dashkhovuz Center of 

Health.

(3)
Dashkhovuz Velayet

Water Quality Monitoring and Sanitation and Hygiene Surveillance in the 

Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment for: (a) improvement 

of the water quality monitoring system and sanitation and hygiene surveillance 
systems; (b) upgrading of the Sanitary and Epidemiological Services laboratories in 
the Dashkhovuz Velayet; and (c): (i) improvement of data collection analysis and 
reporting; (ii) conducting of epidemiological studies; and (iii) training for Sanitary 
and Epidemiological Services laboratories staff in data collection and analysis 
methods.

Part C:

Institutional Strengthening

Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies for:

identification of national sector reforms through a national sector reform study 

(1)
to recommend improvements and develop an action plan to strengthen, on the national 
level, the capacity of the Borrower to provide water and wastewater services; 

(a) establishment of the Dashkhovuz Regional Water and Wastewater Authority 

(2)
(DWWA) to provide sector services to the population of the Dashkhovuz Velayet; and (b) 
institutional strengthening of said Authority in the areas, inter alia, of operation 
and maintenance of facilities, management, collection and dissemination of 
information, finance, administration, personnel, customer relations and cost recovery; 
and

a public awareness campaign to: (a) inform beneficiaries of the Project in the 

(3)
Dashkhovuz Velayet of improvements in water supply services and cost recovery 
initiatives; and (b) educate the population of the Dashkhovuz Velayet in: (i) water 
conservation; (ii) proper operation of the new water supply systems; and (iii) safe 
water usage and storage practices.

Part D: Project Management and Supervision of Construction

Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and operating costs for: 

(1) strengthening of the capabilities of the PIU for Project management; and (2) 
supervision of construction of water supply improvements under Part A of the Project.

      The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.

* * *

SCHEDULE 3

Amortization Schedule

           Payment of Principal

                     Dollars)*

    (Expressed in Date Payment Due

November 15, 2002                            640,000
May 15, 2003                                 660,000
November 15, 2003                            680,000
May 15, 2004                                 700,000
November 15, 2004                            720,000
May 15, 2005                                 740,000
November 15, 2005                            765,000
May 15, 2006                                 785,000
November 15, 2006                            810,000
May 15, 2007                                 835,000
November 15, 2007                            860,000
May 15, 2008                                 885,000
November 15, 2008                            910,000
May 15, 2009                                 935,000
November 15, 2009                            965,000
May 15, 2010                                 995,000
November 15, 2010                          1,020,000 
May 15, 2011                               1,055,000
November 15, 2011                          1,085,000
May 15, 2012                               1,115,000
November 15, 2012                          1,150,000
May 15, 2013                               1,185,000
November 15, 2013                          1,215,000
May 15, 2014                               1,255,000
November 15, 2014                          1,290,000
May 15, 2015                               1,330,000
November 15, 2015                          1,370,000
May 15, 2016                               1,410,000
November 15, 2016                          1,450,000
May 15, 2017                               1,485,000

_____________________

* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 4

Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.

Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:

General

      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.

Part B:

International Competitive Bidding

Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 

1.
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

2.
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.

The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 

      (a)

 Prequalification

      Bidders for the water supply rehabilitation contract  shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.

      (b)

Grouping of contracts

      To the extent practicable, contracts for water supply and sanitation equipment 
and related supplies, furniture and vehicles shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.

      (c)

Preference for domestically manufactured goods

      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.

      (d)

Notification and Advertising

      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.

Part C:

Other Procurement Procedures

1.

International Shopping

      Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

2.

National Shopping

Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

3.

Procurement of Small Works

      Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.

Part D:

Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.

Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.

Prior Review

(a)

With respect to each contract for goods and works to be procured on the 

basis of international competitive bidding procedures, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

(b)

With respect to: (i) the first three contracts for goods to be procured 

on the basis of international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first two contracts 
for small works to be procured on the basis of the procedures set forth in paragraph 3 
of Part C of this Section, estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the 
following procedures shall apply:  (A)  prior to the selection of any supplier under 
international shopping procedures and any contractor under procedures for small works, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;  (B)  prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
international shopping procedures or procedures for small works, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) in 
addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.

Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section II.

Employment of Consultants

Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 

1.
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 

2.
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

SCHEDULE 5

Implementation Program

1.
The Borrower shall carry out  Parts A and C of the Project through MWR and Part 
B of the Project through MOH in accordance with the requirements and details set forth 
or referred to in the PIM.

By December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall adopt the PIM, satisfactory to the 

The Borrower shall, with resources and under terms of reference satisfactory to 

2.
Bank.

3.
the Bank: 

(a)

maintain, until completion of the Project, the PIU and assign to it 

responsibility for overall Project management and coordination;

(b)

maintain, until completion of the Project, the PCC and assign to it 

responsibility to oversee Project implementation and provide policy guidance for the 
implementation of the Project; and 

(c)

maintain, until completion of the Project, the CCs and a Regional CC and 

assign to them responsibility to assist the PIU with Project management.

4.
C of the Project under a time schedule which shall ensure: 

The Borrower shall implement the institutional strengthening measures under Part 

(a) 

the employment by December 31, 1997, pursuant to Section II of Schedule 4 

to this Agreement, of consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, required to prepare the national sector reform 
study referred to in Part C (1) of the Project;

(b)

the preparation and discussion with the Bank of the findings and 

recommendations of said study by December 31, 1998;

(c)
the Bank;

the preparation on the basis thereof of the action plan, satisfactory to 

(d)

the preparation and discussion with the Bank by June 30, 1998, of the 

draft legal instrument for the establishment of the DWWA, which shall provide, inter 
alia, for: (i) appropriate organizational and budgetary structures and an autonomous 
legal form for DWWA; and (ii) the capacity of DWWA to charge tariffs for water supply 
services at such rates as shall enable it to recover by the time the facilities under 
the Project are completed its operation and maintenance costs; and

(e)

the establishment and operation of  the  DWWA  no later  than December 
31, 1998, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon in light of 
progress in Project implementation.

5.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that, upon its 
establishment and operation, the DWWA shall begin to charge tariffs for water supply 
services as provided in paragraph 4(d)(ii) above in each Participating Etrap when the 
water supply systems under the Project for the particular Etrap shall become 
operational.

6.
The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank for review and comment: (a) by December 31, 1997, and 
subsequently by October 31 of each calendar year, draft annual work programs and 
budgets for the Project; (b) quarterly reports on Project execution; and (c) by 
February 15, 1998, and subsequently by February 15 of each calendar year, annual 
reports on the implementation of the Project.

7.

The Borrower shall:

      (a)
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 

prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 

      (b)
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and

review with the Bank, by July 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 

      (c)
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.

SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.

For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and 

the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 

      (b)
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal  to $500,000 to be 

      (c)
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $3,000,000.

2.
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 

After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 

3.
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 

from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.

(i)

       (b)
                    shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                    Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                    specify.

For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower

      (ii)

Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                    required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                    shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
                    as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                    been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                    been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
                    Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                    Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                    shall have been justified by said documents and other 
                    evidence.

For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 

4.
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.

5.
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 

if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 

      (a)
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 

      (b)
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;

if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 

      (c)
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or

(d)

once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

(a)

6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.

      (b)
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 

If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 

Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 

Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 

      (d)
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.

