World Bank Document


                                                LOAN NUMBER 3069 YU

                    Loan Agreement

      (Istria Water Supply and Sewerage Project)

                         among

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                          and

      RADNA ORGANIZACIJA "ISTARSKI VODOVOD" BUZET
                 (ISTRIAN WATER WORKS)
                          and

           RADNA ORGANIZACIJA "VODOVOD" PULA
                  (PULA WATER WORKS)

                Dated February 1, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3069 YU

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1990 among INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
RADNA ORGANIZACIJA "ISTARSKI VODOVOD" BUZET (ISTRIAN
WATER WORKS) and RADNA ORGANIZACIJA "VODOVOD" PULA (PULA
WATER WORKS) (the Borrowers).

     WHEREAS (A) The Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (the Guarantor) and the Borrowers, having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;

     (B) Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried
out by the Borrowers through Radna Organizacija
"Vodoopskrbni Sistem Istre-Vodovod Butoniga" U
Osnivanju-Buzet (Butoniga Water Works);

     (C) Part D of the Project will be carried out by
Komunalna radna organizacija "PUT" - OOUR Kanalizacija
Pula (Work Organization for Public Utility Services "PUT"
- BOAL "Sewerage" Pula); Radna organizacija Komunalnih
djelatnosti "Usluga" Porec (Work Organization for Public
Utility Services "USLUGA", Porec); Samoupravna interesna
zajednica u stambeno komunalnoj oblasti opcine Buzet
(Self-managing Community of Interest for Housing and
Public Utility Services of the Community of Buzet);
Samoupravna interesna zajednica u stambeno komunalnoj
oblasti opcine Rovinj (Self-managing Community of
Interest for Housing and Public Utility Services of the
Community of Rovinj); Samoupravna interesna zajednica u
stambeno komunalnoj djelatnosti napodrucju opcine Buje
(Self-managing Community of Interest for Housing and
Public Utility Services for the Territory of the
Community of Buje); and Samoupravna vodoprivredna
interesna zajednica za vodno podrucje Primorsko -
Istarskih slivova Rijeka (Self-managing Community of
Interest for Water Management for the Catchment Area of
Primorje and Istria) pursuant to agreements to be entered
into among the Borrowers and such entities;

     (D) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrowers in respect of the Loan and to undertake
such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a) "Project Area" means the area serviced by the
Borrowers;

     (b) "Borrowers’ Statutes" means the self-management
agreement, dated December 28, 1977, and statutes, dated
April 9, 1979, of Istrian Water Works, pursuant to which
Istrian Water Works has been established and is
operating, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and the self-management agreement and statutes, dated
December 5, 1978, of Pula Water Works, pursuant to which
Pula Water Works has been established and is operating,
as the same may be amended from time to time;

     (c) "Butoniga Water Works’ Self-management
Agreement" means the self-management agreement, dated
December 18, 1985, of Butoniga Water Works, pursuant to
which Butoniga Water Works has been established and is
operating, as the same may be amended from time to time;

     (d) "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (e) "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of each of
the Borrowers, namely, the period from January 1 through
December 31.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrowers on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for



expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other
charges on the Loan.

     (b) The Borrowers shall, for the purposes of Parts
A (2), B, and C (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     (c) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrowers, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on
such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued
and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to
the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrowers and the Bank.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrowers of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrowers shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.

     (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrowers of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.

     (c)  For purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.

         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.

        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
               the second six months of a calendar year.

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrowers shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.



     Section 2.08. All obligations of the Borrowers under
this Agreement, unless such obligations shall have been
expressly undertaken by each of the Borrowers separately,
shall be joint and several. The obligations of either of
the Borrowers to comply with any provision of this
Agreement is not subject to any prior notice to, demand
upon or action against either of them in respect of the
performance of any of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement.  No failure of the Bank to give any notice or
to make any demand or protest whatsoever to either of the
Borrowers, or strictly to assert any right or pursue any
remedy against either of them in respect of the Loan
Agreement, and no failure by either of the Borrowers to
comply with any requirement of any law, regulation or
order, shall in any way affect or impair any obligation
of the Borrowers under the Loan Agreement.

     Section 2.09. Butoniga Water Works is designated as
representative of the Borrowers for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrowers declare their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project, through
Butoniga Water Works, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

     (b) The Borrowers shall enter into an agreement, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with each
entity referred to in Recital C of this Agreement
pursuant to which each such entity shall carry out its
respective part of Part D of the Project.

     Section 3.02. The Borrowers shall, through Butoniga
Water Works:

     (a) not later than December 31, 1992, carry out, on
the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
the study under Part C (2) of the Project on the
management of water supplies in the Project Area,
including the Butoniga supply and transmission system;

     (b) not later than March 31, 1993, consult with the
Bank on the findings and recommendations of such study;
and

     (c) promptly thereafter, take all measures necessary
to obtain the approval of the agreed recommendations of
such study by the appropriate authorities.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

      Management and Operations of the Borrowers

     Section 4.01. Each Borrower shall carry on its



operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

     Section 4.02. Each Borrower shall at all times
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.

     Section 4.03. Each Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers,or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.

                       ARTICLE V

             Financial and Other Covenants

     Section 5.01. (a) Each Borrower shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.

     (b) Each Borrower shall:

         (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (balance sheets, statements of
               income and expenses and related
               statements) and the records and accounts
               for the Special Account for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by the Social
               Accounting Service or another competent
               and experienced independent auditing
               organization acceptable to the Bank;

        (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year
               (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

       (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other
               information concerning said records,
               accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.

     (c) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, each Borrower shall:

         (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such     expenditures;

        (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other



               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

       (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to
               examine such records; and

        (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 5.02. Without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, each Borrower shall,
not later than March 15 and September 15 of each year,
furnish a report to the Bank prepared in a format
satisfactory to the Bank, on the financial performance of
the Borrower during the previous calendar semester.

     Section 5.03. Each Borrower shall:

     (a) not later than December 31, 1992, carry out, on
the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
a study on its tariff structure;

     (b) not later than March 31, 1993, consult with the
Bank on the findings and recommendations of such study;
and

     (c) promptly thereafter, take all measures necessary
to obtain approval of the agreed recommendations of such
study and put into effect a revised tariff structure.

     Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, each Borrower shall maintain, for each of its
fiscal years after its fiscal year ending in 1988, a
ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
revenues not higher than eighty percent (80%).

     (b) Before March 15 in each of its fiscal years,
each Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared
by each Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, ascertain
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

     (c) If any such review shows that the Borrower would
not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for
the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.

     (d) For the purposes of this Section:

         (i)   The term "total operating expenses" means
               all expenses related to operations,
               including administration, adequate
               maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu
               of taxes, and provision for depreciation
               on a straight-line basis at a rate of not
               less than 2 5% per annum of the average
               current gross value of the Borrower’s
               fixed assets in operation, or other basis
               acceptable to the Bank, but excluding



               interest and other charges on debt.

        (ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
               revenues from all sources related to
               operations.

       (iii)   The average current gross value of the
               Borrower’s fixed assets in operation
               shall be calculated as one half of the
               sum of the gross value of the Borrower’s
               fixed assets in operation at the
               beginning and at the end of the fiscal
               year, as valued from time to time in
               accordance with sound and consistently
               maintained methods of valuation sati-
               sfactory to the Bank.

     Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree:

     (a) Istrian Water Works shall exclude from its
investment program for any fiscal year capital
expenditures (excluding expenditures for the Project)
that would cause its average annual expenditures from
1989 to the fiscal year in question to exceed the
equivalent of $2,500,000; and

     (b) Pula Water Works shall exclude from its
investment program for any fiscal year capital
expenditures (excluding expenditures for the Project)
that would cause its average annual expenditures from
1989 to the fiscal year in question to exceed the
equivalent of $2,000,000.

     Section 5.06. Pula Water Works shall, not later than
December 31, 1994, carry out an action plan, on the basis
of a format and schedule satisfactory to the Bank, to
reduce the level of unaccounted-for water.

     Section 5.07. Without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrowers
shall, in conjunction with Butoniga Water Works, not
later than March 15 and September 15 of each year,
furnish to the Bank a report, prepared in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, on progress in implementation
of the Project during the preceding calendar semester.

                      ARTICLE VI

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a) Any of the entities referred to in Recital C to
this Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the agreements referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

     (b) The Borrowers’ Statutes, Butoniga Water Works’
Self-management Agreement and any law of the Guarantor
pertaining to the operations of the Borrowers or Butoniga
Water Works shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of
either Borrower or Butoniga Water Works or the ability of
either Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.

     (c) The Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the



dissolution or disestablishment of either Borrower or
Butoniga Water Works or for the suspension of its
operations.

     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely that the events specified in paragraphs
(b) and (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                      ARTICLE VII

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely that the agreements referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been
executed on behalf of the Borrowers and the entities
referred to in Recital C of this Agreement.

     Section 7.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely
that the agreements referred to in Section 7.01 of this
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrowers and the entities referred to in Recital C of
this Agreement and are legally binding upon the Borrowers
and such entities in accordance with their terms.

     Section 7.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                     ARTICLE VIII

      Representative of the Borrowers; Addresses

     Section 8.01. The General Manager of Butoniga Water
Works is designated as representative of the Borrowers
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                  440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)

      For the Borrowers:

          Radna organizacija
          "Istarski Vodovod"
          Sveti Ivan 8
          51420 Buzet
          Yugoslavia

                                        Telex:



                                           25198

          Radna organizacija "Vodovod"
          Omladinska 9
          52000 Pula
          Yugoslavia

                                        Telex:

                                           25393

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/  E. Lari

                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

               RADNA ORGANIZACIJA "ISTARSKI VODOVOD" BUZET
               (ISTRIAN WATER WORKS)

               By /s/  J. Kulisic

                              Authorized Representative

               RADNA ORGANIZACIJA "VODOVOD" PULA
               (PULA WATER WORKS)

               By /s/  J. Kulisic

                              Authorized Representative

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                     Amount of the
                    Loan Allocated               % of
                     (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Works (except     8,000,000        100% of foreign
     for Parts A (1),                   expenditures and
     C (4) and D of                     30% of local
     the Project)                       expenditures

(2)  Goods (except for 12,000,000       100% of foreign
     Parts A (1), C (4)                 expenditures,
     and D of the                       100% of local
     Project)                           expenditures



                                        (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 85%
                                        of local ex-
                                        penditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(3)  Consultants’      2,000,000        100% of foreign
     services, training                 expenditures and
     and Project-                       50% of local
     related foreign                    expenditures
     travel (except
     for Parts A (1),
     C (4) and D of
     the Project)

(4)  Interest and      3,900,000        Amount due
     other charges on
     the Loan accrued
     on or before
     December 31, 1995

(5)  Unallocated       2,100,000

     TOTAL             28,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor;

     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Guarantor is also
that of another country from the territory of which goods
or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and

     (c) the term "Project-related foreign travel" means
travel undertaken by the staff of the Borrowers to visit
works of a similar nature to the Project and inspect
equipment for the Project during manufacture.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be made in
respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures for Parts B (1) and (3) of
the Project Before that date but after June 1, 1988.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are:  (a) to eliminate
existing water shortages in the Project Area; (b) to
provide additional water supply capacity needed for
expansion of the tourism industry and growth in domestic
and industrial/commercial demand in the Project Area; (c)
to reduce unaccounted-for water in the Pula Water Works
distribution network; (d) to protect existing water
sources and coastal tourist areas from pollution; and (e)
to increase efficiency in the delivery of water supply
and sewerage services in the Project Area.



     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:   Water Supply and Treatment

(1) Creation of a sanitary protection zone for the
Butoniga
Reservoir.

(2) Construction of the Butoniga water treatment plant
with a capacity of about l,000 l/sec, expandable in the future
to about 2,000 l/sec, including a raw water pumping station and a
treated water pumping station.

Part B:   Transmission and Storage

(1) Construction of a raw water and treated water
pipeline from the Butoniga reservoir to the Butoniga
treatment plant and from the Butoniga treatment plant to
Beram.

(2) Construction of a treated water pipeline from Beram
to Laborika with branching trunk mains connecting the
community centers of Rovinj, Pazin and Pula and
construction of the Pazin Pumping Station.

(3) Construction of distribution storage totalling about
19,000 m3.

(4) Provision and installation of telemetering and
controls for system operation.

Part C:   Training, Studies and Equipment

(1) Provision of technical assistance for the reduction
of unaccounted-for water.

(2) Carrying out of a study of the feasibility of
combining Istria Water Works and Pula Water Works and the
operation of the Butoniga water supply system.

(3) Carrying out of studies of the tariff structures of
the Borrowers.

(4) Carrying out of a master plan sewerage study for the
Project Area.

(5) Provision of equipment for the implementation,
operation and maintenance of the Butoniga water supply
system.

(6) Provision of training courses and materials for the
training of the staffs of the Borrowers and the Butoniga
Water Works.

Part D:   Sewerage

(1)  In the Community of Pula, construction of: (a) the
Valbandor sewerage system consisting of the
Valbandor-Fazana collector, the Valbandor sewerage
network, and two pumping stations; (b) the
Verudele/Pjescana uvala sewerage system and the Pula town
interceptor connecting the Trafo stancia pumping station;
(c) completion of the Banjole sewerage system; and (d)
the Medulin sewerage system consisting of a sea outfall,
a sewage treatment plant, sewers and pumping stations.

(2) In the Community of Rovinj, construction of: (a) the



Rovinj center interceptor, including three pumping
stations (Skver, Valdibora and Kino) and a forcemain; and
(b) the Polari pumping station and the Polari-Kuvi
collector.

(3) In the Community of Porec, construction of an
interceptor and pumping stations connecting the existing
sewage treatment plants at Cervar, Lanterna and Ulika
with the existing sewage treatment plant at Materada and
the extension of the Materada sea outfall.

(4) In the Community of Buje, construction of:  (a) a
secondary treatment plant for the old town of Buje to
serve an equivalent population of about 7,000; (b) a
preliminary sewage treatment plant and sea outfall for
the old town of Novigrad to serve an equivalent
population of about 10,000; (c) a preliminary sewage
treatment plant and the extension of an outfall for
Savudrija to serve an equivalent population of about
15,000.

(5) In the Community of Buzet, construction of sewerage
networks in the Buzet center to extend service to the
existing unserved population.

(6) In the Community of Pazin, construction of a sewage
treatment and disposal system for the old town of Pazin
and nearby industries.

The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (Expressed in dollars)*

On each April 15 and October 15

     beginning October 15, 1994
     through April 15, 2004              1,400,000

*    The figure in this column represents dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
o� any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                                        The interest
                                        rate (expressed
                                        as a percentage
                                        per annum)
                                        applicable to
                                        the Loan on the



                                        day of
                                        prepayment,
                                        multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.20
before maturity

More than three years but               0.40
not more than six years
before maturity

More than six years but                 0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity

More than eleven years but not          0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity

More than thirteen years before         l.00
maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding

1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.   Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be
required to register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for
submitting bids. In the event that registration shall be
required after a foreign contractor or supplier has been
notified that he will be awarded a contract, the
Borrowers shall facilitate the registration.

3.   Each contract for goods and works shall include a
provision that the Borrowers shall take all measures
necessary to enable contractors and suppliers to import
equipment and materials and specialized manpower as
required to carry out their services.

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.



2.   Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$1,500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a) With respect to each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments
of such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.

     (b) With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that a conformed copy of the contract
together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall
be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.

     (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
5.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of para- graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II:  Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrowers in the carrying out
of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrowers shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.  Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                    Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods



and services required for Parts A (2), B and C (1), (2),
(3) (5) and (6) of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrowers shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrowers, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrowers shall have requested.

     (b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrowers shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrowers shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrowers, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrowers shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been made out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the res- pective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrowers out of the
Special Account, the Borrowers shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

     (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrowers directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this



Agreement; or

     (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A (2), B
and C (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Parts A (2), B and C (1), (2),
(3), (5) and (6) of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for Parts A (2), B and C (1), (2),
(3), (5) and (6) of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrowers. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was
made for an expendi- ture or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrowers shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request,
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrowers have provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrowers shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c) The Borrowers may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. �