World Bank Document


                                                LOAN NUMBER 3279 VE

                      (Interest Support Loan)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 14, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3279 VE

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) The international banking community has responded
favorably to the Borrower’s request thereto distributed as of
June 25, 1990, and denominated "1990 Financing Plan" (hereinafter
the Financing Plan), for participation in a debt relief and new
financing package designed to support the Borrower’s medium-term
growth-oriented economic program and the Borrower has requested the
assistance of the Bank for financing the provision of collateral to
secure interest payments on Eligible Bonds (as hereinafter defined)
be issued in exchange for existing debt as part of the Financing
Plan;

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided to provide such assistance by making a loan to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; and

      (C)   the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that the
execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower’s Law "LEY PROGRAMA PARA EL FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PLAN DE
INVERSIONES EN INFRAESTRUCTURA SOCIAL Y EN INFRAESTRUCTURA DE APOYO
A LA PRODUCCION, DEL PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO SOCIAL, DEL PROGRAMA DE
PREINVERSION, SUPERVISION Y ASISTENCIA TECNICA, DEL PLAN DE
INVERSIONES DE ENTES DEL SECTOR PUBLICO Y DE OPERACIONES DE
REDUCCION DE LA DEUDA PUBLICA EXTERNA, QUE SE EJECUTARA DURANTE EL

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



PERIODO 1990 - 1994" published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
Extraordinary Issue No. 4194 dated July 30, 1990.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "Collateral" means collateral to be pledged by the
Borrower in connection with the Exchange (as hereinafter defined) to
secure interest payments on the Eligible Bonds (as hereinafter
defined) in accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to the
Financing Plan, and partially financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan;

      (b)   "Collateral Accounts" means the several interest
collateral accounts in which the Collateral for the Eligible Bonds
is to be deposited in accordance with agreements (hereinafter the
"Collateral Pledge Agreements") made by the Borrower in favor of the
collateral agent (hereinafter the "Collateral Agent") pursuant to
the Financing Plan;

      (c)   "Eligible Bond" means each of the Collateralized Fixed
Rate Par Bonds Due 2020 to be issued by the Borrower in dollars as
described in the Financing Plan in a principal amount equal to 100%
of the principal amount of the Eligible Debt (as hereinafter
defined) to be exchanged for such Bonds payable with interest at a
fixed rate per annum depending on the applicable currency as shown
in the Financing Plan;

      (d)   "Eligible Debt" means any or all of the debt owed to
commercial banks and other financial institutions, and eligible for
Exchange (as hereinafter defined) under the Financing Plan;

      (e)   "Exchange" means the exchange of any or all Eligible
Debt of Participating Lenders (as herein after defined) for new debt
evidenced by, inter alia, Eligible Bonds to be implemented in
accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to the Financing
Plan;

      (f)   "Participating Lenders" means commercial banks and other
financial institutions with Eligible Debt that elect to participate
in the Financing Plan; and

      (g)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
beginning on January 1 of each year.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this



Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1991 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.



      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) Upon the occurrence of any of the following
events, the Bank, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the principal amount of the Loan then outstanding as specified
below together with all accrued interest and other charges thereon:

            (i)   The Bank shall have determined at any time that
                  any amount of the Loan has not been used on or
                  prior to the Closing Date for the purpose of the
                  Program in which case the amount of the Loan
                  subject to prepayment shall be such amount as
                  shall have been so determined.

            (ii)  Any portion of the Collateral shall have been
                  released to the Borrower and the remaining amount
                  of the said Collateral shall be less than the
                  amount set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agree-
                  ment in which case the amount of the Loan subject
                  to advanced repayment shall be equal to the dif-
                  ference between the amount set forth in Section
                  2.01 of this Agreement and the remaining amount
                  of the Collateral less: (i) any amounts which
                  have been previously prepaid pursuant to this
                  Section 2.08 (a) (ii); and (ii) any amounts which
                  would have been subject to such prepayment but
                  for the provision of the following sentence. The
                  provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
                  the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of
                  the Bank, that the amount of such Collateral so
                  released has been or will be used to support
                  further debt or debt service reduction activities
                  of the Borrower.

          (iii)   On or after December 19, 1991, the Bank shall
                  have determined that the average price shown by
                  the quotations of West Texas Intermediate crude
                  oil during the period between December 18, 1990
                  and a date twelve calendar months later, as
                  published in the Eastern Edition of the United
                  States publication denominated the Wall Street
                  Journal  (or, in the absence thereof, in any
                  other publication agreed upon in writing between
                  the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of this
                  Agreement), each Monday during the period in
                  respect of the Friday immediately preceding, has
                  exceeded $23 per barrel, in which case the full
                  amount of the Loan shall be subject to prepay-
                  ment; provided, however that if any relevant
                  Monday or Friday falls on a holiday the day in
                  question will be deemed to be the immediately
                  next coming or preceding, respectively, business
                  day.

      (b)   The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of
any of the events listed in Sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph
(a) of this Section within five (5) working days of the occurrence
thereof.

      (c)   The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium
payable under Schedule 2 to this Agreement on prepayment of any
portion of the Loan pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.

      (d)   Prepayment of all or any portion of the Loan in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a
date and in the currency specified by the Bank and the amount so
prepaid shall be deleted from the Central Disbursement Account on
such date.



      Section 2.09. The Borrower’s officers appointed by the
representative of the Borrower stipulated in Section 7.01 of this
Agreement, are hereby designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions including, without limitation,
preparing withdrawal applications under the Loan and collecting the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support
of such applications.

                            ARTICLE III

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the payments made in respect of the Program and financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                  Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year or years in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Loan Account was made, all records (con-
                  tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants



      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the
Program.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
Program in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the
Loan solely for the purposes of the Program; and

      (b)   without any limitations or restrictions upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section
2.08 (b) of this Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) at all
times keep the Bank informed of all notices, certificates and
confirmations issued to or received by the Borrower in respect of
the Collateral; and (ii) provide to the Bank copies of the monthly
reports with respect to the Collateral Accounts to be delivered by
the Collateral Agent to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of
the Collateral Pledge Agreements within 15 days of the receipt
thereof.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   that any event shall have occurred that, in the
reasonable judgment of the Bank, materially and adversely affects
the maintenance of the Collateral under the agreements entered into
pursuant to the Financing Plan; provided, however, that the
preceding provisions shall not apply in the event Collateral has
been drawn-down or released in accordance with such agreements; and

      (b)   the pledge of the Collateral shall have ceased to be a
valid and perfected first priority security interest in favor of the
Collateral Agent on behalf of the holders of the Eligible Bonds.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the
Bank, showing that the Implementation Agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank dated December 14, 1990, has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms;

      (b)   that the Borrower shall have confirmed, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of adequate
resources to implement the Financing Plan; and

      (c)   that the Borrower shall have executed agreements with
participating lenders: (i) for the exchange, under the Financing
Plan, of eligible debt, aggregating at least the equivalent of
eleven billion dollars for Collateralized Floating Rate Discount
Bonds Due 2020, Collateralized Fixed Rate Par Bonds Due 2020 and
Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds Due 2007; and (ii) under which
said lenders shall have committed new money under the Financing Plan
aggregating at least the equivalent of one billion dollars.

      Section 6.02. The date of February 14, 1991 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.



                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower and the
Negotiator of the Venezuelan external debt, are severally designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Direccion General Sectorial
              de Finanzas Publicas
            Edificio Norte, Piso 5
            Centro Simon Bolivar
            Caracas 1010, Venezuela

                                          Telex:

                                            24215 HDACP

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                  By /s/ Carlos Hernandez Delfino
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1



                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                            of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for payments made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made, in respect of the provision of Collateral for the Eligible
Bonds and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments to be made in
respect of the provision of Collateral unless: (a) the Bank shall
have approved the procedures for such withdrawals; and (b) the Bank
shall be satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with
the arrangements for the maintenance of the Collateral.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

     beginning June 15, 1996
     through December 15, 2005                  7,500,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
     before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73
     not more than eleven years



     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity

More than thirteen years before                 1.00
     maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

              Modifications to the General Conditions

1.    The following provisions of the General Conditions are
deleted:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02.

      (b)   Section 5.02.

      (c)   Section 5.04.

      (d)   Section 5.08.

      (e)   The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel
any amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in
Section 6.01.

      (f)   Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.

      (g)   Section 6.04.

      (h)   The phrase "and not subject to any special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.07.

      (i)   Section 9.04

      (j)   Section 9.05.

      (k)   Section 9.06.

      (l)   Section 9.08.

      (m)   Section 9.09.

2.    Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Program’ means the provision of Collateral (as defined
      in the Loan Agreement) for the purpose of securing the payment
      of interest on Eligible Bonds (as defined in the Loan Agree-
      ment) to be exchanged for Eligible Debt (as defined in the
      Loan Agreement) that may be financed out of the proceeds of
      the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
      Agreement. All references to ’Project’ in these General
      Conditions shall be understood as references to ’Program’ as
      defined in this paragraph."

3.    Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 4.01. Currencies in which withdrawals are to be
      Made.  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
      agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the
      respective currencies in which the payments to be financed out
      of the proceeds of the Loan have been made or are to be made."

4.    The last sentence of Section 4.02 (a) shall be modified to
read:

            "Each such amount shall be deleted from the Central
      Disbursement Account on the date it becomes due or such
      earlier date as may be accepted by the Bank for prepayment or



      as may be specified for prepayment pursuant to the Loan
      Agreement."

5.    The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be modified to
read:

            "Each such amount shall be deleted from such sub-account
      on the date it becomes due or such earlier date as may be
      accepted for prepayment or as may be specified for prepayment
      pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

6.    Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account.  The
      Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account
      amounts paid or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid for
      the purposes of the Program in accordance with the provisions
      of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions.

7.    Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When the
      Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Loan
      Account, the Borrower shall deliver to the Bank a written
      application in such form, and containing such statements and
      agreements, as the Bank shall reasonably request. Applications
      for withdrawal, including the documentation required pursuant
      to this Article, shall be made promptly in relation to
      payments for the Program."

8.    Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower
      shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
      and monitor the progress of the Program (including its cost
      and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
      payments financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
      disclose their use in the Program; (ii) enable the Bank’s
      representatives to examine the records and documents relevant
      to the performance of the obligations of the Borrower under
      the Loan Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
      intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
      request concerning the Program, its cost and, where appropri-
      ate, the benefits to be derived from it, and the payments
      financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

            (b)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the carrying out of
      the Program, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
      derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
      of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
      the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."