World Bank Document


                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3195-IN

            (Technician Education Project)

                        between

                         INDIA

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated August 13, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3195-IN

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1990, between INDIA,
acting by its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement between
the Borrower and the International Development
Association (the Association) of even date herewith (the
Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



     (B)  the Borrower has also requested the Association
to provide additional financial assistance toward the
financing of the Project and by the Development Credit
Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
one hundred seventy eight million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 178,200,000) (the Credit);

     (C)  the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed
on account of expenditures in respect of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in this Agreement are made; and

     (D)  Parts B.6, C.6 and C.7 of the Project will be
carried out by the Borrower and Parts A, B.1 - B.5, C.1 -
C.5, and D of the Project will be carried out by the
Project States with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Project States the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in the Development Credit Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith among the Association, the Bank and the Project
States;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Preamble to this
Agreement, the General Conditions and in the Development
Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the term "Development Credit Agreement" means
the agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Association for the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be



withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1998 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a). The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’ s investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
               after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six
                months or the second six months of a
                calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each



     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable  semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this
Section, Sections 2.02 (b), 3.01, 3.02, 4.01 and 4.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3
and 4, thereto are incorporated in the Loan Agreement,
with the following modifications in said Sections and
Schedules 2 and 3 unless the context otherwise requires:

          (i)  the term "Association" shall be read as
               "Bank";

          (ii) the term "Credit" and "Credit Account"
               shall be read as "Loan" and "Loan
               Account"; and

          (iii)     the term "this Agreement" or "the
                    Development Credit Agreement" shall
                    be read as "the Loan Agreement".

     (b)  So long as any part of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement shall remain
outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified
otherwise by the Bank:

          (i)  all actions taken, including approvals
               given, by the Association pursuant to any
               of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the
               Development Credit Agreement enumerated
               in paragraph (a) of this Section, as well
               as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the
               Development Credit Agreement, shall be
               deemed to be taken or given in the name
               and on behalf of both the Association and
               the Bank; and

          (ii) all information or documentation
               furnished by the Borrower to the
               Association pursuant to the provisions of
               any of such Sections of the Development
               Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
               shall be deemed to be furnished to both
               the Association and Bank.

     Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions



(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B.1 -
B.5, C.1 - C.5 and D of the Project shall be carried out
by the Project States pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely, that the events set out in Section
5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, provided,
however, that the term "Association" wherever it appears
in such Section shall be read as "Bank".

     Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event set out in Section 5.02
of the Development Credit Agreement, provided, however,
that the term "Association" wherever it appears in such
Section shall be read as "Bank".

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement
terminates prior to the termination of this Agreement,
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect between the Borrower and the Bank.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India

          Cable address:           Telex:

               ECOFAIRS              953-3166175



               New Delhi

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD            197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                     64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               INDIA

               By /s/ Anil Kumar
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                       SCHEDULE

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

December 15, 1995                       455,000.00
June 15, 1996                           475,000.00
December 15, 1996                       490,000.00
June 15, 1997                           510,000.00
December 15, 1997                       530,000.00
June 15, 1998                           550,000.00
December 15, 1998                       570,000.00
June 15, 1999                           595,000.00
December 15, 1999                       615,000.00
June 15, 2000                           640,000.00
December 15, 2000                       665,000.00
June 15, 2001                           690,000.00
December 15, 2001                       720,000.00
June 15, 2002                           745,000.00
December 15, 2002                       775,000.00
June 15, 2003                           805,000.00
December 15, 2003                       835,000.00
June 15, 2004                           870,000.00
December 15, 2004                       900,000.00
June 15, 2005                           935,000.00



December 15, 2005                       975,000.00
June 15, 2006                          1,010,000.00
December 15, 2006                      1,050,000.00
June 15, 2007                          1,090,000.00
December 15, 2007                      1,135,000.00
June 15, 2008                          1,175,000.00
December 15, 2008                      1,225,000.00
June 15, 2009                          1,270,000.00
December 15, 2009                      1,320,000.00
June 15, 2010                          1,380,000.00

____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective
     dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per
                                   annum) applicable to
                                   the Loan on the day
                                   of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                   0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                   0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity