World Bank Document


                                            LOAN NUMBER 3103 EGT

                         Loan Agreement

                     (Fourth Power Project)

                             between

              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                         AND DEVELOPMENT

                               and

                 EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY

                     Dated  February 2, 1990

                                            LOAN NUMBER 3103  EGT

AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY
AUTHORITY (the Borrower).

     WHEREAS (A) Arab Republic of Egypt (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;

     (C)  to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower:
(i) has obtained under loan agreements (a) a loan in the amount of
$124,000,000 equivalent from the African Development Bank; (b) a
loan in the amount of $123,000,000 equivalent from the Arab Fund
for Social and Economic Development; and (c) a loan in the amount
of $15,000,000 equivalent from the Islamic Development Bank; and
(ii) intends to obtain under a loan agreement a loan in an amount
of about $57,000,000 equivalent from the European Investment Bank;
and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                            ARTICLE I

                 General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein not forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

     (b)  "EDA" means the Electricity Distribution Authority of the
Guarantor;

     (c)  "EDCs" means the Electricity Distribution Companies
operating under the general supervision of EDA;

     (d)  "Regulation" means Law No. 12 of 1976 of the Guarantor,
establishing the Borrower and governing its operations;

     (e)  "Co-Financiers" means the entities referred to in Recital
(C) in the Preamble to this Agreement, namely, the African
Development Bank, the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Develop-
ment, the European Investment Bank and the Islamic Development
Bank;

          (f)  "Co-Financiers Loan Agreements’ means the loan
agreements entered into, or to be entered into, between the
Borrower and the Co-Financiers; and

          (g)  "Co-Financing Loans" means the loans provided under
the Co-Financiers Loan Agreements.

                           ARTICLE 11

                            The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of one hundred sixty-five million dollars
($165,000,000) as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank in a commercial bank to be selected by the
Central Bank of the Guarantor.  Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per



annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one half
of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.

          (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.

     (c) For purposes of this Section:

            (i)     "Interest Period" means the six-month period
                    commencing on each date specified in Section
                    2.06 of this Agreement, including the Interest
                    Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)     "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost
                    of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                    drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a
                    percentage per annum, as reasonably determined
                    by the Bank.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or the
                    second six months of a calendar year.

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE III

                    Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:

          (a)  by December 31, 1990, prepare, on the basis of the
study being carried out by the Borrower, a plan for implementation
of measures to encourage the efficient use of electricity, and
thereafter carry out such plan in conjunction with the concerned
entities of the Guarantor, and taking into account the Bank’s
comments thereon; and

          (b)  assign the responsibility for the implementation of
the environmental protection measures referred to in Part C (5) of
the Project to a coordination committee to be established within
the Borrower and ensure the completion of such measures, including
the acquisition and installation of necessary equipment, by June
30, 1991.

     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank, on a format acceptable to the Bank, semi-annual reports on
progress in Project implementation.

     Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan



shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                           ARTICLE IV

            Management and Operations of the Borrower

          Section 4.01. The Borrower shall continue to carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
engineering, administrative, financial and public utility practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

          Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.

          Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Guarantor and the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.

          Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall not take any action
to establish or acquire any subsidiary if, as a result thereof, the
financial position of the Borrower would be materially and
adversely affected.

          (b)  The Borrower shall cause any subsidiary established
or acquired by the Borrower, to observe and to perform the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement to the extent such
obligation would be applicable to such subsidiary.

          Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all measures
required on its part to ensure that the account receivable of the
Borrower for the sale of electricity will be settled within three
months of the billing date.

                            ARTICLE V

                       Financial Covenants

     Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts (including separate Project accounts) adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) of the Borrower and each of
               the EDCs and the records and accounts for the
               Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the and of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of the finan-
               cial statements of the Borrower and of each EDC for
               such year as so audited, (B) the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested
               and (C) proforma consolidated accounts of the
               Borrower and the EDCS; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and
                    financial statements as well as the audit



                    thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)     maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                    this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                    such expenditures;

           (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal
                    year in which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                    such records; and

           (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.

     Section 5.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take the measures required to
achieve the financial objectives stated in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

     Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out, by June 30,
1991, a study of the structure and levels of its tariffs and, on
the basis thereof, develop, in conjunction with the concerned
authorities of the Guarantor, proposals for a new tariff structure;
and (b) furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, said
study and proposals upon the completion thereof.

                           ARTICLE VI

                      Remedies of the Bank

     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

     (a)  The Regulation shall have been amended, suspended or
repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s
ability to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.

     (b)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

               (A)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                    proceeds of any of the Co-Financing Loans
                    shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing therefor; or

               (B)  any Co-Financing Loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed maturity
                    thereof.

          (ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that (A) such suspension, cancellation or
               prematuring is not caused by the failure of the



               Borrower to perform its obligations under the
               relevant Co-Financiers Loan Agreement; and (B)
               adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower on terms and conditions consistent with
               the obligations of the Borrower under this
               Agreement.

     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                           ARTICLE VII

                   Effective Date; Termination

     Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Co-Financiers Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the
European Investment Bank has been concluded.

     Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                          ARTICLE VIII

            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                Telex:

                    INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
                    Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
or
                                             64145 (WUI)

          For the Borrower:

                    Egyptian Electricity Authority
                    Nasr City, Abbassiah
                    Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt

                    Cable address:           Telex:

                         ELECTROCOP                    92097 POWER
UN
                         Cairo, Egypt

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.



                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                    By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                                   Acting Regional Vice President
                             Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                    EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY

                    By /s/ E. El Reedy

                                       Authorized  Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category                  Dollar Equivalent        to be
Finance

(1)  Works:                                       100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures

     (a)  for Part A (2)      91,800,000
          of the Project

     (b)  for Part B (2)      22,485,000
          of the Project

(2)  Goods:

     (a)  for Part A (2)         200,000               100% of
foreign
          of the Project                          expenditures

     (b)  for Part B (1)      38,480,000               100% of
foreign
          and B (2) of                            expenditures and
          the Project                                  100% of
local
                                                  expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost)

     (c)  for Part C (1)       1,735,000               100% of
foreign
          of the Project                          expenditures

(3)  Consultants’ services                             100% of
foreign
                                                  expenditures

     (a)  for Parts A (2)           5,500,000
          and B (1)
          and (2) of the
          Project

     (b)  for Part C (1)       2,200,000



          of the Project

(4)  Unallocated                    2,600,000
                              ___________

               TOTAL               165,000,000
                              ============

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Guarantor; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may be
made, on account of payments made for expenditures under Category
3 (a) before that date but after June 1, 1987.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                   Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the carrying out of investments for power generation, transmission
and distribution to most growing electric power demand, and in the
establishment of improved operational and financial practices.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   Power Stations and Related Facilities

1.   Construction of a combined cycle power plant with a total
capacity of about 1080 KW at Faraskur in the Governorate of
Damietta.

2.   Construction of additional plants necessary for conversion to
combined cycle operation the existing combustion turbines at
Mahmoudia and Damanhour power stations, comprising heat recovery
steam generators, steam turbines, associated piping, instrumenta-
tion and controls and electrical and mechanical equipment.

Part B:   Transmission Lines and Sub-Stations

1.   Construction of about 380 km of 220-KV transmission lines.

2.   Supply and installation of equipment for the power sub-
stations to provide 500 MVA of additional transformer capacity.

Part C:   Institutional Development

1.   Provision of instruments, equipment and technical services
required for implementation of load management measures.

2.   Completion of the Borrower’s tower testing facilities.

3.   The carrying out of a training program for staff of the
Borrower.

4.   Assistance to the Borrower in the operation of its data bank
and management information system.

5.   The implementation of measures to strengthen the Borrower’s



environmental protection capability.

                          *   *   *   *

     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1994.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                      Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

January 1, 1995                              3,030,000.00
July  1, 1995                           3,145,000.00
January 1, 1996                              3,265,000.00
July  1, 1996                           3,390,000.00
January 1, 1997                              3,520,000.00
July  1, 1997                           3,655,000.00
January 1, 1998                              3,795,000.00
July  1, 1998                           3,940,000.00
January 1, 1999                              4,090,000.00
July  1, 1999                           4,245,000.00
January 1, 2000                              4,410,000.00
July  1, 2000                           4,575,000.00
January 1, 2001                              4,755,000.00
July  1, 2001                           4,935,000.00
January 1, 2002                              5,125,000.00
July  1, 2002                           5,320,000.00
January 1, 2003                              5,520,000.00
July  1, 2003                           5,735,000.00
January 1, 2004                              5,955,000.00
July  1, 2004                           6,180,000.00
January 1, 2005                              6,415,000.00
July  1, 2005                           6,665,000.00
January 1, 2006                              6,915,000.00
July  1, 2006                           7,180,000.00
January 1, 2007                              7,455,000.00
July  1, 2007                           7,740,000.00
January 1, 2008                              8,040,000.00
July  1, 2008                           8,345,000.00
January 1, 2009                              8,665,000.00
July  1, 2009                           8,995,000.00

______________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

Pursuant to Section  3.04  (b)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                            Premium

                                        The interest rate (ex-
                                        pressed  as a percentage
                                        per annum)  applicable to
                                        the Loan on the  day of
                                        prepayment, multiplied
                                        by:

Not more than three years                         0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                         0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity



More than six years but                           0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                        0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but not                        0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                         1.00
     maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

              Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section 1.     Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except an provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part  B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part  C:  Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Items of small equipment such as measuring instruments,
recorders and relays, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $40,000 per contract and  $600,000 in the aggregate may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.   Items of equipment required to be procured from the original
suppliers of the facilities referred to in Part A (2) and B (2) of
the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$4,100,OOO in the aggregate may be procured on the basis of
contracts negotiated directly with such suppliers, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

Part  D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

          (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.



          (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Contracting the Services of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision of con-
struction under Part B of the Project and in the carrying out of
such other tasks under Part C of the Project as the Borrower and
the Bank shall agree, the Borrower shall contract the services of
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                         Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

          (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

          (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

          (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" moans an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 which may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals



               as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
               the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been made out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

     (a)  If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or Justified.  Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be,

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.



     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 6

                      Financial Objectives

1.   In accordance with the Guarantor’s energy policy, and to
ensure the Borrower’s sound financial position, the Borrower shall,
except as may otherwise be agreed with the Bank: (a) produce funds
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 20% for fiscal
year 1991/1992, 30% for fiscal year 1992/1993 and 35% for each of
the following fiscal years of the annual average of the Borrower’s
capital expenditures incurred (or expected to be incurred) during
such year, the preceding fiscal year and the following fiscal year;
and (b) not incur a debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the
internal cash generation of the Borrower for the twelve-month
period preceding the incurrence of such debt would be less than 1.5
times the estimated maximum debt service requirement for any
succeeding fiscal year on the debt of the Borrower.

2.   At the middle of each fiscal year, the Borrower shall review,
on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, its ability to
meet the requirements stated in paragraph 1 above, and shall take,
on the basis of such review, the measures, if any, required
therefor.

3.   For the purposes of paragraph 1 above:

      (i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
          difference between:

          (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
               operations, consumer deposits and consumer
               contribution in aid of construction and net non-
               operating income; and

          (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
               including administration, adequate maintenance and
               taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
               provision for depreciation and other non-cash
               operating charges), debt services requirements,
               changes in working capital, all cash dividends and
               other cash distributions of surplus and other cash
               outflows other than capital expenditures.

     (ii) the term "net non-operating income" means the difference
          between:

          (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related
               to operations; and

          (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
               taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
               (A) above.

     (iii)     The term "debt service requirements" means the
               aggregate amount of repayment (including sinking
               fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
               charges on, debt.

     (iv) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures
          incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest
          charged to construction related to operation.

     (v)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
          necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the



          Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
          valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
          lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
          at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower
          for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
          absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
          acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank.

     (vi) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower or
          any EDC maturing by its terms more than one year after
          the date on which it is originally incurred.

     (vii)     Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
               loan contract or agreement or other instrument
               providing for such debt or for the modification of
               its terms of payment, on the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument, but only to the extent,
               the amount of such debt has become outstanding; and
               (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
               agreement providing for such guarantee has been
               entered into but only to the extent that the
               guaranteed debt is outstanding.

     (viii)    The term "internal cash generation" means gross
               revenues from all sources related to operations,
               less all expenses related to operations, including
               maintenance and administration and all taxes or
               payments in lieu of taxes, but before provision for
               depreciation of assets (including provisions not
               involving movement of cash but which are treated as
               operating expenses under the uniform system of
               account of the Guarantor) and interest and other
               charges on debt.