World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3189 ME

                          Loan Agreement

              (Transmission and Distribution Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                     Dated September 25, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3189 ME

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor), the
Borrower and Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE), having been
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as are set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   by an agreement (the Project Agreement) of even date
herewith, between the Bank and CFE, the latter has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;

      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



Development Bank (IDB) a loan in an amount equivalent to approxi-
mately three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and IDB; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted,
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "CFE" means Comision Federal de Electricidad, (Federal
Electricity Commission) wholly owned by the Guarantor and
established by the Ley que area la Comision Federal de Electricidad,
published in the Diario Oficial of the Guarantor on August 24, 1937,
as amended;

      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and CFE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CFE pursuant to Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "Financial Rehabilitation Agreement" means the agreement
(Convenio para la Rehabilitacion Financiera de la Comision Federal
de Electricidad) between the Guarantor and CFE, dated August 31,
1989;

      (f)   "Ten-Year Investment Plan" means the Programa de Obras
e Inversiones del Sector Electrico - POISE, the program of works and
investments for the electric power sector of the Guarantor, issued
by CFE on March 3, 1989, as amended from time to time pursuant to
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;

      (g)   "Hydroelectric Development Project" means the Project,
as so defined in the Loan Agreement, dated September 25, 1989,
between the Bank and the Borrower;

      (h)   "Loan Agreement 3083-ME" means the Loan Agreement
referred to in paragraph (g) above;

      (i)    "Project Agreement 3083-ME" means the Project
Agreement, dated September 25, 1989, between the Bank and CFE, in
respect of the Hydroelectric Development Project;

      (j)    "Guarantee Agreement 3083-ME" means the Guarantee
Agreement, dated September 25, 1989, between the Guarantor and the
Bank in respect of the Hydroelectric Development Project;



      (k)   "SEDUE" means Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y
Ecologia, the Guarantor’s Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology;

      (l)   "Special Transmission Program" means the program to be
carried out by CFE to build high voltage transmission lines, as
described in the report "Programa de Construccion de Obras en el
Area de Transmision de CFE", dated July 10, 1989, such program to be
carried out during the years 1990 through 1993;

      (m)   "Special Distribution Program" means the program to be
carried out by CFE to construct and improve distribution networks
and equipment, as described in the report "Programa Especial para
Ampliaciones y Mejoras en el Area de Distribucion", dated July 1989,
such program to be carried out during the years 1990 through 1994;

      (n)   "Special Thermal Plant Renovation Program" means the
program to be carried out by CFE to upgrade and renovate
approximately 40 thermal power generating units to full capacity,
and to improve their efficiency and availability, as described in
the report "Proyecto Especial para Rehabilitacion y Modernizacion de
las Unidades Generadoras Termoelectricas", dated October 1989, such
program to be carried out during the years 1990 through 1994;

      (o)   "FOB" means "free on board", as defined in "Incoterms",
published by the International Chamber of Commerce in March 1980;

      (p)   "CIF" means "cost, insurance and freight", as defined in
"Incoterms", published by the International Chamber of Commerce in
March 1980;

      (q)   "PEMEX" means Petroleos Mexicanos, the national
petroleum company established and wholly owned by the Guarantor; and

      (r)   "CLFC" means Compania de Luz y Fuerza del Centro.

                          ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four hundred fifty million dollars ($450,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shaLl be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding



Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Periods means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
            to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
            on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            or Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                    Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                     Execution of the Project;
                          Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall lend the proceeds of the
Loan to CFE for purposes of carrying out the Project under a



subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered
into between the Borrower and CFE, and that shall include, inter
alia, the following terms and conditions:

            (i)   the funds lent to CFE shall be denominated in
                  dollars;

            (ii)  CFE shaLl pay the same charges, interest and have
                  the same amortization period as are set forth in
                  Sections 2.04 through 2.07 of this Agreement, on
                  all amounts withdrawn and outstanding under the
                  Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

            (iii) CFE shall pay a fee to the Borrower of 10% of the
                  interest due and payable on amounts withdrawn and
                  outstanding under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out by CFE
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, the Special Account, and separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have such separate records and the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with generally accepted auditing
                  standards and practices consistently applied, by
                  independent and qualified auditors;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

            (iii) furnish to the Bank each month certified
                  statements of the Special Account; and

            (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning the Special Account, the audit thereof
                  and said records as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,



                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least
                  one year after the Bank has received the audit
                  report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   CFE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;

      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CFE will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;

      (c)   the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CFE, or for the suspension of its operations;

      (d)   the IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by September 30, 1990, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and

      (e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the loan under the IDB Loan
                        Agreement, or any other loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing there
                        for; or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under



                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into on
behalf of the Borrower and CFE; and

      (b)   progress, satisfactory to the Bank, has been made by the
Guarantor, the Borrower and CFE in the execution of the
Hydroelectric Development Project, including, without limitation,
the implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly executed and
authorized, and is legally binding upon, CFE in accordance with its
terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and
duly authorized by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and
CFE in accordance with its terMs.

      Section 6.03. The date December 26, 1990 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America



                  Cable address:                Telex:

                        INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT)
                        Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Direccion Internacional
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre Sur, 11  Piso
            CP 01020, Mexico D.F.
            Mexico

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  NAFIN                    NAFIME 383-1775765
                  Mexico City              Mexico City

                                          Fax:

                                           548-5191

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ S. Shah id Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                  Latin American and the Caribbean

                  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                  By /s/ Juan Jose Paramo
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods for the            160,000,000        100% of foreign
    Special Trans-                              expenditures (CIF
    mission Program                             Mexican port) and
    under Part A.2                              100% of local



    of the Project                              expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)

(2) Goods for the            140,000,000        100% of foreign
    Special Distri-                             expenditures (CIF
    bution Program                              Mexican port) and
    under Part A.3                              100% of local
    of the Project                              expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)

(3) Goods for the            103,500,000        100% of foreign
    Special Thermal                             expenditures (CIF
    Plant Renovation                            Mexican port) and
    Program under                               100% of local
    Part A.4 of                                 expenditures (ex-
    the Project                                 factory cost)

(4) Consultants’               l,000,000        100%
    services under
    Parts B.l (a)
    and B.2 (a) of
    the Project

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Training expen-              500,000        100%
    ditures under
    Parts B.l (b)
    and B.2 (b) of
    the Project

(6) Unallocated                4,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               450,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$20,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after September 24, 1989 under
Categories (1) through (3) for goods procured under Section I.A. of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and under Categories (4) and (5).

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support CFE’s
transmission and distribution program for the years 1991-1992 with
the purpose of meeting industrial and commercial demand and
expanding residential coverage, while improving the technical
efficiency and reliability of electric service; (b) promote
improvements and renovation of thermoelectric power plants to reduce
the investment requirements of the electric power sector; (c)
support the Guarantor’s policy of modifying CFE’s tariff structure



to reduce subsidies to end users; (d) strengthen CFE’s internal
capabilities to address environmental issues related to the
operation of thermoelectric power plants and to the construction of
transmission lines and (e) continue improving CFE’s management,
technical, financial and energy conservation functions.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     CFE’s Investment Program 1991-1992

      All works and services in connection with the Ten-Year
Investment Plan in respect of the years 1991-1992, including,
without limitation, the following:

1.    Generation Program: Completion of the construction of, and
placing into operation of, new power plants with a total capacity of
approximately 1,200 megawatts and start of the construction of new
power plants in accordance with the Ten-Year Investment Plan.

2.    Transmission Program: Construction of high voltage
transmission lines, substations and related facilities, and without
limitation to the foregoing, the execution of the Special
Transmission Program in respect of the years 1991-1992.

3.    Distribution Program: Connection of approximately 1.1 million
new customers to the electricity distribution system and, without
limitation to the foregoing, the execution of the Special
Distribution Program in respect of the years 1991-1992.

4.    Equipment Upgrading: The renewal and upgrading of existing
installations, including generation, transmission and distribution
facilities and, without limitation to the foregoing, the execution
of the Special Thermal Plant Renovation Program in respect of the
years 1991-1992.

5.    General Plant: Investments in facilities required for the
operation of CFE including, without limitation, office buildings,
vehicles and office equipment.

Part B:     Studies and Technical Assistance

      The carrying out of:

1.    (a)   A study on the environmental aspects of transmission
lines and substations, such study to examine: (i) issues related to
rights of way; (ii) resettlements; (iii) health effects of
transmission lines and substations; (iv) the effects of the use of
fire and biocides to maintain rights of way; (v) organizational
aspects of CFE in the areas of environmental matters with regard to
transmission lines and substations; and (vi) the design of the
training program referred to in subparagraph (b) below.

      (b)   A training program for the personnel of CFE and SEDUE on
the environmental aspects of transmission lines and substations.

2.    (a)   A study for the purposes of: (i) determining the nature
and extent of the prevailing level of pollution caused by thermal
power plants to air, land and water; and (ii) performing technical
and economical analyses of alternative means to reduce pollution and
affluents from thermal plants to permissible levels.

      (b)   A training program for the personnel of CFE and SEDUE on
the control and reduction of pollution caused by thermal power
plants.

                            *  *  *  *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 3



                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15

      beginning December 15, 1995         18,750,000
      through  June 15, 2007