World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3068-0 YU

                     (Seventh Railway Project)

                               among

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

           PUBLIC RAILWAY TRANSPORT ENTERPRISE BELGRADE

                                and

                  COMMUNITY OF YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS

                      Dated November 13, 1990

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3068-0 YU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 13, 1990, among INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PUBLIC RAILWAY
TRANSPORT ENTERPRISE BELGRADE (the Borrower) and the COMMUNITY OF
YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS (CYR).

      WHEREAS (A) Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the
Guarantor), the Borrower and CYR, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the following
external sources of finance (the Cofinanciers) loans in the
following amounts to assist in the financing of part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Cofinanciers: (1) the European Investment Bank (EIB):
ECU 30,000,000; and (2) Eurofima: $11,400,000;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (D)   Socialist Republic of Serbia (the Republic) has
undertaken to provide to the Borrower such funds (the Local Funds)
as are needed to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project through the period ending December 31,
1990, all in accordance with Decision No. 30-2117 of the Republic
adopted on January 4, 1989 (the Funding Law); and the Borrower
intends to secure from the Republic further undertakings to provide
to the Borrower such additional funds (the Additional Funds) as are
needed to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the Project after December 31, 1990;

      (E)   the Borrower intends to secure from the City of Belgrade
a grant (City Grant) in an aggregate amount equal to 32,000,000,000
Yugoslav Dinars (constant 1987 prices) (the City Funds) to assist in
the financing of part of the Project on conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "CYR" means the Community of Yugoslav Railways, a
business association established and operating pursuant to the
Guarantor’s Law on Association in the Community of Yugoslav Railways
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette No. 18/78, and
Statutes adopted on September 7, 1981, as the same may be amended
from time to time;

      (b)   "Action Plan" means the Borrower’s 1990-1993 plan of
action for the development and improvement of its railway activities
set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as the
same may be revised from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Railway Investment Plan" means the Borrower’s priority
investment program to be carried out in the Republic during the
1990-1991 period set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, as the
same may be revised from time to time in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement;

      (d)   "Basic Legislation" means the Guarantor’s Law on
Enterprises published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette Nos. 77/88
dated December 31, 1988, and 40/89 dated July 4, 1989, and the
Republic’s Law on Raiways and Decision on the Establishment of the
Public Railway Transport Enterprises, both published in the
Republic’s Official Gazette No. 59/89, pursuant to which the
Borrower has been established and is operating, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan



      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty-three million two hundred thousand dollars
($43,200,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain a special account in a currency and a commercial bank
satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower, CYR and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half
of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.

      (c)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period
                  commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
                  of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage
                  per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project (a) with
due diligence and efficiency, (b) in accordance with the Action



Plan, and (c) in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and railway practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and railway practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. Without limitation on the generality of the
provisions of Sections 3.01 and 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:

      (a)   take all measures necessary to ensure that the Action
Plan shall be carried out with due diligence and efficiency;

      (b)   maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the carrying out of the Action Plan;

      (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than May 31 of
each year a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
on the conclusions and recommendations indicated by the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed during such year pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section, including any proposed revisions to
be introduced into the Action Plan; and thereafter, promptly
introduce such revisions into the Action Plan as shall have been
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower; and

      (d)   take all action necessary on its part in order to enable
CYR to comply with its obligations under Section 6.02 of this
Agreement.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its railway network, plants, machinery, equipment,
installations and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and railway practices.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for the Special Account for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to



                  the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) increase its domestic tariffs on October 1,
1990, (A) by at least (1) the change in the Producer Price Index
during the calendar year 1989, minus the aggregate increase in said
tariffs during said year, (2) by the change in the Producer Price
Index during the first three quarters of 1990, minus the aggregate
increase in said tariffs during said period, and (3) by 50% of the
estimated change in the Producer Price Index during the fourth
quarter of 1990, and (B) by an additional 6%; (ii) increase its
domestic tariffs on January 1, 1991, and thereafter on the first day
of each quarter of each of its fiscal years by at least (A) the
change in the Producer Price Index during the previous quarter, and
(B) by 50% of the estimated change in said Index during the present
quarter; and (iii) at all times maintain a ratio of unit revenue
from domestic passenger traffic to unit revenue from domestic
freight traffic equal to at least the ratio of unit revenue from
domestic passenger traffic to unit revenue from domestic freight
traffic for the fourth quarter of its fiscal year 1988; all as shall
be calculated on the basis of a methodology satisfactory to the
Bank.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   the term "Producer Price Index" means the
                  producer price index for industrial goods
                  published monthly by the Federal Bureau of
                  Statistics of the Guarantor (Savezni zavod za
                  Statistiku); and
           (ii)   the term "estimated change in the Producer Price



                  Index" means the change in said Index during the
                  most recent period of three consecutive months
                  for which said Index has been published.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990, a ratio of total operating
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 110%.

      (b)   Before September 1 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments to the structure or levels of domestic
passenger and freight tariffs charged by the Borrower) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, provision for
                  depreciation of assets as revalued from time to
                  time on a basis acceptable to the Bank, but
                  excluding interest, and other charges on debt.

           (ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations,
                  including all amounts paid by the Republic to the
                  Borrower for the provision of services by the
                  Borrower at concessionary tariffs pursuant to
                  agreements providing for the payment to the
                  Borrower of the difference between the cost of
                  said services and the revenues generated through
                  the concessionary tariffs, as calculated on the
                  basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, but
                  excluding all payments made to the Borrower by
                  the Republic, the Socialist Autonomous Province
                  of Vojvodina and the Socialist Autonomous
                  Province of Kosovo, includ-ing, inter alia,
                  payments made in respect of railway
                  infrastructure maintenance and payments made
                  pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law on the Basic
                  Principles of the System of Prices and the Social
                  Control of Prices published in the Guarantor’s
                  Official Gazette No. 83/89 and Law on
                  Compensation published in the Guarantor’s
                  Official Gazette No. 11/80, as the same may be
                  amended from time to time.

      (e)   The provisions of Section 5.04 (b) of the Loan Agreement
dated October 1, 1983, between the Bank and the Borrower for a Sixth
Railway Project (Loan No. 2336-0 YU) are hereby amended to read as
set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this Section.

      Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt (other than a debt incurred
for the financing of the Project) unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times the
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on
all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.



      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.

           (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions including administration, adequate
                        maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, but excluding provision for depre-
                        ciation, other non-cash operating charges
                        and interest and other charges on debt.

           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest (cal-
                  culated in respect of loans in the currency of
                  the Guarantor, on the basis of real annual
                  interest rates, and in respect of loans in
                  currencies of countries other than that of the
                  Guarantor, on the basis of nominal interest
                  rates) and other charges on debt.

           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve
                  months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                  question, which both the Bank and the Borrower
                  accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
                  notified the Borrower of its acceptability,
                  provided that no event has occurred since such
                  notification which has, or may reasonably be
                  expected in the future to have, a material
                  adverse effect on the financial condition or
                  future operating results of the Borrower.
          (vii)   The term "real annual interest rate" means the
                  nominal annual interest rate on the debt minus
                  the rate of increase in the Producer Price Index
                  during the preceding twelve months.

         (viii)   The term "Producer Price Index" means the
                  producer price index for industrial goods
                  published monthly by the Federal Bureau of
                  Statistics of the Guarantor (Savezni zavod za
                  Statistiku).



           (ix)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   carry out the Railway Investment Plan with due
                  diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with
                  sound administrative, financial, economic, engi-
                  neering and railway practices;

           (ii)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
                  November 15 of each of its fiscal years the
                  following information, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall reasonably request: (A)
                  a report on the progress achieved in the carrying
                  out of the Railway Investment Plan; (B) a
                  proposed operational plan setting forth the
                  Borrower’s estimated traction and rolling stock
                  requirements for the remaining period covered by
                  the Railway Investment Plan; and (C) any
                  revisions proposed to be introduced into the
                  Railway Investment Plan on the basis, inter alia,
                  of said operational plan, and the financing plan
                  therefor;

          (iii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                  exchange views with the Borrower on said
                  information; and
           (iv)   thereafter promptly take all measures necessary
                  to introduce such revisions into the Railway
                  Investment Plan as shall have been agreed between
                  the Bank and the Borrower.

      (b)   Further to the foregoing:

            (i)   the Borrower shall consult with the Bank before
                  introducing any major change in the Railway
                  Investment Plan and ensure that no such change
                  shall be introduced in said Plan unless and until
                  the Borrower shall have established to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that any proposed
                  investment occasioning such change is financially
                  and economically justified.

           (ii)   For the purposes of this Section, the term "major
                  change" in the Railway Investment Plan means any
                  change or changes in the Railway Investment Plan
                  estimated to result or resulting in an increase
                  of 5% or more of the aggregate amount of
                  investments included in said Railway Investment
                  Plan for any one of the Borrower’s fiscal years.

                            ARTICLE VI

                          CYR’s Covenants

      Section 6.01. CYR declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall take all action necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement
and shall not take or concur in any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      Section 6.02. In order to ensure the proper coordination of



the implementation of the Project, the Bank, the Borrower and CYR
hereby agree that CYR shall take the following actions on behalf of
the Borrower:

      (a)   preparation and furnishing to the Bank of withdrawal
applications under the Loan and collection and furnishing to the
Bank of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank
in support of such applications;

      (b)   carrying out of the monitoring and evaluation activities
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, and preparation and
furnishing to the Bank of the revisions referred to in said Section,
proposed to be introduced into the Action Plan and the Railway
Investment Plan;

      (c)   preparation and furnishing to the Bank of the plans,
schedules and reports referred to in Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the
General Conditions;

      (d)   coordination of the procurement of goods and services
required for the Project; and

      (e)   carrying out of the studies and provision of training
included in the Project.

      Section 6.03. (a) CYR shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.

      (b)   CYR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance by
CYR of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 6.04. CYR shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
economic and railway practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

      Section 6.05. (a) CYR shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the resources and expenditures in respect of railway operations
allocated through CYR and attributable to the Borrower.

      (b)   CYR shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

                            ARTICLE VII

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 7.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The proceeds of the financing provided under the



Cofinancing Agreements and the City Grant shall not have become
available to the Borrower pursuant to the schedule of required
availability agreed to between the Bank and the Borrower or the
proceeds of the Additional Funds shall not have become available to
the Borrower by December 31, 1990; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project,
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement or other
                        instrument providing therefor; or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such sus-
                  pension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
                  is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources
                  on terms and conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (c)   The Republic shall have failed to provide any of the
Local Funds to the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the
Funding Law.

      (d)   The Basic Legislation or any other law pertaining to the
operations of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial condition of the Borrower or
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement.

      (e)   CYR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under this Agreement.

      (f)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CYR will be able to perform its
obligations under this Agreement.

      (g)   The Law or Statutes referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of
this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of CYR to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      (h)   The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CYR or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 7.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of said Section;



      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraph (e) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and

      (c)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (d), (g) and
(h) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                           ARTICLE VIII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 8.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   the Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, CYR and is legally
binding upon CYR in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   the Funding Law has been duly enacted by the Republic
and is in full force and effect.

      Section 8.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE IX

       Representative of the Borrower and of CYR; Addresses

      Section 9.01. (a) The General Manager of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      (b)   Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of CYR may be taken or executed by the President of the
Managing Board of CYR or such other person or persons as said person
shall designate in writing, and CYR shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.

      Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            ZTP "Beograd"
            11000 Beograd
            Nemanjina 6
            Yugoslavia

                                          Telex:



                                            11188 YU

      For CYR:

            ZJZ Beograd
            11000 Beograd
            Nemanjina 6
            Yugoslavia
                                          Telex:

                                            12495 YU ZJZ

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ E. F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                  PUBLIC RAILWAY TRANSPORT ENTERPRISE BELGRADE

                  By /s/ D. Mujezinovic
                                         Authorized Representative

                  COMMUNITY OF YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS

                  By /s/ D. Mujezinovic
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
 Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Materials for         13,200,000    )
      Parts A (1) and                     )
      A (2) of the                        )
      Project                             )
                                          )     100% of foreign
(2)   Equipment and         14,550,000    )     expenditures and
      software for                        )     100% of local
      Part A (4) of                       )     expenditures
      the Project                         )     (ex-factory cost)
                                          )
(3)   Spare parts for        9,400,000    )
      Part A (7) of                       )



      the Project                         )

(4)   Consultants’             170,000          34.69%
      services and
      Training

(5) Unallocated              5,880,000
                            __________

      TOTAL                 43,200,000

                            ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after April 1, 1989.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in the upgrading
and development of Yugoslavia’s principal railway lines, the
improvement of railway transportation on said lines, the integration
of Yugoslavia’s railway system and the strengthening of the
management and operational capabilities and financial performance of
the Borrower, all in accordance with the Guarantor’s strategy of
increasing the efficiency of the transport sector and increasing its
foreign exchange earnings derived therefrom.

      The Project, to be carried out within the Republic, consists
of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:

Part A:   Infrastructure, Traction and Rolling Stock and Equipment

(1)   Overhaul of tracks.

(2)   Reconstruction of lines and stations and provision of
facilities required therefor.

(3)   Provision and installation of signalling and telecommunication
systems.

(4)   Development and introduction of an information system to
facilitate the proper operations of the Borrower, including the
provision of computer hardware and software required therefor.

(5)   Provision of track maintenance equipment.

(6)   Provision of equipment and facilities required for an
integrated transport system.

(7)   Rehabilitation and provision of traction and rolling stock and
provision of spare parts for locomotives.

(8)   Provision of training equipment and equipment and facilities
required in the carrying out of the Borrower’s operations,



including, inter alia, workshops, depots and radio dispatching
equipment.

Part B:     Studies and Seminars

(1)   Carrying out of a comparative study of railway marketing in
various countries.

(2)   Carrying out of a study to identify, evaluate and recommend
measures to improve transit traffic.

(3)   Provision of a seminar to improve the skills of the Borrower’s
staff in economic and financial analysis.

                              * * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning February 1, 1995
      through August 1, 2004                    2,160,000

_____________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                  0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years before                 1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4



               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and IIof the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be required to
register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the
event that such registration shall be required after a foreign
contractor or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded a
contract, the Borrower and CYR shall take all measures necessary to
facilitate such registration.

3.    Each contract for the supply of goods shall include provisions
whereby the Borrower shall undertake to take all measures necessary
to enable the supplier of such goods to import such equipment,
materials and specialized manpower as may be required to perform its
obligations under said contract.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Section, goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the



"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:

      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.

5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when either of the following situations first arises:

            (i)   the Bank shall have determined that all further
                  withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
                  directly from the Loan Account in accordance with
                  the provisions of Article V of the General
                  Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
                  this Agreement; or



           (ii)   the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
                  allocated to the eligible Categories minus the
                  amount of any outstanding special commitment
                  entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
                  of the General Conditions with respect to the
                  Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
                  twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                            Action Plan

1.    Operational Targets

      (a)   The Borrower shall at all times take all necessary
action to achieve the operational targets set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall carry out: (i) a staff reduction program,
satisfactory to the Bank, designed to ensure the achievement of the
staffing targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule; and (ii)
a program for the closure of freight stations, satisfactory to the
Bank, designed to ensure the achievement of the station closure
targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.

2.    Locomotive Overhaul

      The Borrower shall carry out a program, satisfactory to the
Bank, to improve the system of maintenance and overhaul of the
Borrower’s locomotives, designed to centralize such maintenance and
overhaul activities in selected depots and workshops so as to
minimize the need for maintenance and overhaul equipment, reduce the
inventories of spare parts required and improve the efficient
procurement of spare parts.

3.    Spare Parts Monitoring

      The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1991,
introduce a monitoring system, satisfactory to the Bank, designed to
assist the Borrower in ensuring the availability as and when needed
of spare parts for traction and rolling stock in adequate
quantities.

                               Annex to Schedule 6



                              Operational Targets

                                 1990    1991    1992    1993

Number of staff at year-end     26,835  26,19425,568  24,957

Productivity of labor (traffic
  units (thousand)/employee)       300     314     329     344

Number of freight stations to
  be closed (cumulative)             7      21      42      69

Availability of electric
  locomotives (%)                   80      82      82      82

Availability of diesel
  locomotives (%)                   76      78      80      80

Availability of electric
  motor trains (%)                  75      80      80      80

Availability of diesel
  motor trains (%)                  20       -       -       -

Availability of passenger
  coaches (%)                       80      82      82      82

Availability of freight
  wagons (%)                        94      94      94      94

                                  SCHEDULE 7

                            Railway Investment Plan

                                                               Total
                                          1990       1991     1990-91
                                      US$ Million (December 1988 dollars)

A.    COMPLETION OF 1981-85 PLAN

      Track Overhaul                      18.25       3.73     21.98
      Machinery for Line Maintenance       0.97       -         0.97
      Radio Dispatcher                     2.94       -         2.94
      Spare Parts                          1.60        -        1.60

      Sub-Total                           23.76       3.73     27.49
        Price Contingencies                1.09       0.31      1.39

      Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES   24.85       4.04     28.88

B.    SEVENTH BANK LOAN

      Truck Overhaul                       -         14.27     14.27
      Construction of Beograd
        Junction, II                      17.74      11.02     28.76
      Locomotive Spare Parts              13.22      13.38     26.60
      Information                          3.58      17.18     20.76

      Sub-Total SEVENTH BANK LOAN         34.54      55.85     90.39
        Price Contingencies                1.58       4.58      6.16

      Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES   36.12      60.43     96.55

C.    EIB LOANS

      Radio Dispatching Equipment          7.50       1.85      9.35
      Construction of Beograd
         Junction, II                     14.99      14.99     29.98



      Sub-Total EIB LOANS                 22.49      16.84     39.33
        Price Contingencies                1.03       1.38      2.41

      Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES   23.52      18.22     41.74

                                                               Total
                                          1990       1991     1990-91
                                     US$ Million (December 1988 dollars)

D.    INFRASTRUCTURE

      Electrification                      0.06       0.08      0.14
      SS & TT Equipment                    0.31       0.31      0.62
      Reconstruction of Lines              0.45       0.46      0.91
      Reconstruction of Line
        Stalac-Trupale                     3.35        -        3.35

      Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE             4.17       0.85      5.02
        Price Contingencies                0.19       0.07      0.26

      Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES    4.36       0.92      5.28

E.    ROLLING STOCK

      Electric Motor Trains                0.70        -        0.70
      Passenger Coaches                    4.97       6.35     11.32
      Freight Wagons                       3.02       5.03      8.05
      Electric Locomotives-
        Reconstruction                     7.39       7.39     14.78
      Other Reconstruction of
        Rolling Stock                      1.45       1.45      2.90

      Sub-Total ROLLING STOCK             17.53      20.22     37.75
        Price Contingencies                0.80       1.66      2.46

      Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTENGENCIES   18.33      21.88     40.21

                                                               Total
                                          1990       1991     1990-91
                                      US$ Million (December 1988 dollars)

F.    MISCELLANEOUS INVESTMENTS

      Integrated Transport                 1.09       1.09      2.18
      Workshops & Depots                   0.24       0.14      0.38
      Studies & Designs                    1.69       1.68      3.37
      Other                                1.48       1.49      2.97

      Sub-Total MISCELLANEOUS              4.50       4.40      8.90
        Price Contingencies                0.21       0.36      0.57

      Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES    4.71       4.76      9.47

      Total BASE COSTS                   106.99     101.89    208.88
        Price Contingencies                4.89       8.35     13.24

      Total Project COSTS                111.88     110.24    222.12
                                         ======     ======    ======

__________________

Note: Base costs are in December 1988 prices.
      Exchange Rate: 5218.58 Din = US$1

      Physical Contingencies of 10% have been included in amounts for all items
      except for Traction and Rolling Stock, Spare Parts and Miscellaneous.
      Price Contingencies, representing only international inflation, have been
      estimated at 3% p.a. in 1989-90 and 4% in 1991.