World Bank Document


                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3125 UNI

                              Loan Agreement

                         (Essential Drugs Project)

                                  between

                        FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                             Dated May 7, 1990

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3125 UNI

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1990, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   Parts A through D of the Project will, except as otherwise
provided, be carried out by Bendel, Cross River, Kwara and Gongola States
of Nigeria (the Project States) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will relend to the Project States proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Project States;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreements" means the agreements between the Bank and
the Project States as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreements;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Project States pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements;

      (c)   "FMOH" means the Federal Ministry of Health of the Borrower;

      (d)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement or Section 2.06 of the Project Agreements;

      (e)   "Federal Drug Revolving Fund" means the drug revolving fund
referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Annual Project Performance Audit" means the audit referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Project" means with respect to: (i) the Borrower,
Parts A (1) (b) and (a) and A (2); B (2), (3) and (4); C (1) and (3); and
D (2) and (3) of the Project; and (ii) the Project States, Parts A (1); B
(1) and (3); C (1) and (2); and D (1) of the Project;

      (m)   "Essential Drugs List" means the respective essential drugs list
of the Borrower and of each of the Project States satisfactory to the Bank;
and

      (n)   "Naira" means the currency of the Borrower.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to sixty- eight million one hundred thousand
dollars ($68,100,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain (or cause to be opened and maintained) in dollars special accounts
for FMOH and the Project States in commercial or merchant banks on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Project Agreements.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per
annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum
above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior



to the commencement of such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such
Semester.

      (c)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing
                  on each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  including the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed;

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings’ means the cost of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
                  30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per annum, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank; and

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project;
                        Use of Proceeds of the Loan

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, public health
and pharmaceutical practices. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall within the limits of
its constitutional powers cause the Project States to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreements all the obligations of the
Project States therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project States to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (c)    The Borrower shall through FMOH: (i) provide in its annual
budget amounts sufficient to cover the Borrower’s counterpart contributions
to the costs of the Project; (ii) open and maintain at a commercial or
merchant bank two project accounts (the FMOH Project Accounts) to be used
exclusively for expenditures relating to (A) the Borrower’s technical
support for the essential drugs programs of the Project States and the Local
Government Administrations (the FMOH Project Account A); and (B) the
essential drugs program of the Borrower (the FMOH Project Account B); and
(iii) pay each quarter into the FMOH Project Accounts initial amounts
(representing 25% of the Borrower’s counterpart contributions to the first
year’s Project costs) of Naira 300,000 for the FMOH Project Account A, and
Naira 1,000,000 for the FMOH Project Account B; and (iv) thereafter pay into
the FMOH Project Accounts (not later than the quarter immediately following
the quarter in which the Loan Agreement becomes effective) the respective
counterpart contributions of the Borrower, adjusted to take account of any
payments of the initial amounts specified above. The Borrower and the Bank
presently estimate the said counterpart contributions to amount to
$6,700,000 equivalent over the Project period.

      (d)   The Borrower shall relend to the Project States the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to the Project States under Categories (1) , (2), (3) and
(4) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under subsidiary loan agreements (the



Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Project States on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank including: (i) annual interest at the variable rate provided for in
Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) repayment of principal in not more than
20 years (including a maximum of 5 years of grace); (iii) payment by each
Project State, at the rate specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, of
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it and not withdrawn from time to time; and (iv) provisions
requiring each Project State to assume foreign exchange risks on the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it.

      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.

      (f)   The Borrower shall through FMOH establish and thereafter with
the participation of its teaching and specialist hospitals maintain for the
Federal hospitals a drug revolving fund (the Federal Drug Revolving Fund)
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) through FMOH carry out annually
a project performance audit (the Annual Project Performance Audit)
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) no later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year furnish to the Bank a report satisfactory to the Bank
on the Annual Project Performance Audit.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreements.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the actions described in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by each Project
State pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreements.

                                ARTICLE IV

                       Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  (including the Special Accounts, the FMOH Project
                  Accounts and the Federal Drug Revolving Fund Account)
                  reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made; and

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in



                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such year
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors
                  as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Project States shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the Project Agreements;

      (b)   The Borrower and the Project States shall have failed to perform
their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and

      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Project States will be able to perform their obligations
under the Project Agreements and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely the event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date: Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   at least one Project State has executed a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

      (b)   two suitably qualified persons have been appointed and assigned
as coordinators of the Project activities of: (i) FMOH’s Department of Food
and Drug Administration and Control; and (ii) FMOH’s Department of Hospital
Services and Training

      (c)   at least one Project State which has executed a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has opened a State Project Account and paid in the initial amount
required under Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreements; and

      (d)   the Borrower has established the FMOH Project Accounts and paid
in the initial amounts required under Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that a Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by a Project State and is legally binding on the said Project State in
accordance with its terms; and



      (b)   that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and a Project State and is legally binding on the
Borrower and the Project State in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance and
               Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
            Lagos, Nigeria

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FEDMINFIN                     21248 (ITT)
                  Lagos

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                  By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                                Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa



                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

      1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Essential drugs                             100% of foreign
    seed stock:                                 expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures

    (a)  Bendel State         5,700,000)
                                       )

    (b)  Cross River          8,500,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (c)  Gongola              6,900,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (d)  Kwara                3,500,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (e)  FMOH                15,100,000)

(2) Vehicles,                                   100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures and
    and materials:                              85% of local
                                                expenditures

    (a)  Bendel State         1,600,000)
                                       )
    (b)  Cross River            800,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (c)  Gongola              1,200,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (d)  Kwara                  600,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (e)  FMOH                 2,500,000)

(3) Consultants, ser-                           100%
    vices, fellowships
    and studies:

    (a)  Bendel State           700,000)
                                       )
    (b)  Cross River            800,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (c)  Gongola                500,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (d)  Kwara                  300,000)
         State                         )
                                       )
    (e)  FMOH                 1,800,000)
(4) Civil works:

    (a)  Project



         States
         (Central
         Medical
         Stores
         only):

         (i) Bendel State       100,000)
                                       )
        (ii) Cross River        300,000)
             State                     )
                                       )
       (iii) Gongola State      100,000)
                                       )
        (iv) Kwara State        300,000)         85%
                                       )
                                       )
    (b)  FMOH                 1,300,000)

(5) Future pro-                  600,000        100%
    ject pre-
    paration
    funds (FMOH)

(6) Unallocated:

    (a)  Bendel State          1,700,000

    (b)  Cross River           3,500,000
         State

    (c)  Gongola               3,000,000
         State

    (d)  Kwara State           1,100,000

    (e)  FMOH                  5,600,000

         TOTAL                68,100,000

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made:

    (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories
(2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after April 1, 1989 in aggregate amounts not exceeding the
equivalent of (i) $500,000 for Bendel State, (ii) $600,000 for Cross River
State, (iii) $800,000 for Gongola State; (iv) $500,000 for Kwara State; and
(v) $300,000 for FMOH.

    (b)   in respect of expenditures made by a Project State under any
Category unless: (i) a Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Project State and an opinion has been furnished to the Bank stating that the
Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project State
and is legally binding on the Project State in accordance with its terms;
and (ii) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Bor-
rower and the Project State and an opinion has been furnished to the Bank
stating that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and the Project State and is legally binding on the
Borrower and the Project State in accordance with its terms; and

    (c)   in respect of expenditures made by a Project State or, as the case
may be, FMOH in respect of essential drugs seed stock under Category (1):

          (i)   for any year of the Project unless (A) the Project State
                or, as the case may be, FMOH has furnished the Bank with
                estimates of essential drugs seed stock requirements
                satisfactory to the Bank showing the quantities and amounts
                of essential drugs seed stock required for that year by the
                Project State or, as the case may be, FMOH, and (B) the
                Project State concerned or, as the case may be, FMOH has
                established a system for managing the recovery of drug



                costs satisfactory to the Bank including in the case of the
                Project State the appointment of a suitably qualified
                financial controller; and

          (ii)  in amounts in excess of those set out in the estimates for
                essential drugs seed stock requirements furnished to and
                agreed with the Bank pursuant to sub-paragraph (c)(i) of
                this paragraph.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) provide the public with access
to a sustainable supply of safe, effective and affordable drugs; (ii)
improve the skills of health workers in providing drugs; (iii) educate
patients and the public in the proper use of drugs; and (iv) reorganize and
strengthen the institutions responsible for the carrying out of essential
drugs programs.

    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve the objectives of the Project.

Part A:   Supply of Safe Drugs

(1)       (a)   Development by the Project States of improved procedures for
the selection, quantification and procurement of drugs, including: (i)
preparation and maintenance in each Project State of an essential drugs list
satisfactory to FMOH and the Bank; (ii) production and distribution of
standard procurement manuals; and (iii) provision to each Project State of
communication equipment and staff with commercial skills.

    (b)   Provision to the public of a sustainable supply of safe, effective
and affordable drugs.

    (c)   Improving drug storage and distribution in the Project States
including: (i) upgrading, re-equipping or construction of each Project
State’s Central Medical Stores; (ii) rehabilitation, construction and
equipping of zonal and Local Government Administration medical stores; (iii)
provision of refrigeration, low-cost cooling systems and stand-by generators
for the medical stores and facilities; (iv) the provision of a small number
of vehicles and/ or rehabilitation of existing vehicles; and (v) production
and distribution of forms and manuals on supply management.

    (d)   Monitoring drug quality in the Project States, including the
provision of transport and materials to field supervisors assigned to check
the adequacy of storage procedures and conditions and inventory management.

    (e)   Program to recover drug replacement costs incurred by the Borrower
and the Project States, including: (i) the establishment of drug revolving
funds (DRFs); (ii) provision of financial managers and (in the case of the
Project States) professional accountants to assist in the operation and
management of DRFs; (iii) provision to the DRFs of equipment (e.g.,
computers, safes and strong boxes); (iv) preparation for the DRFs of
financial management systems and distribution to the DRFs of forms and
manuals on financial management and supply; (v) training of the staff of
DRFs; and (vi) annual audits of DRFs.

(2)       (a)   Strengthening by the Borrower of Federal drug procurement
institutions, including: (i) establishment of a Central Drug Procurement
Unit in FMOH and rehabilitation of an office block for the Central Drug
Procurement Unit; (ii) provision of computers, software and office and
communication equipment; (iii) development by the Borrower of a procurement
information service; (iv) upgrading of the Federal drug production unit at
Yaba through the provision of matching equipment, reference materials and,
for one year, raw materials; and (v) provision in six Federal regional
hospitals of basic equipment and raw materials for blending pharmacies.

    (b)   Improving drug storage and materials handling by Federal health
institutions and workers including: (i) upgrading and reequipping of the
Federal Medical Stores; (ii) construction, equipping and staffing of two



Federal regional stores at Kano and Port Harcourt; and (iii) provision of
vehicles to collect and deliver drugs to Federal hospitals.

    (c)   Monitoring drug quality by Federal health institutions, including:
(i) upgrading of the quality assurance laboratory in Yaba, construction of
a new regional laboratory in Kaduna and provision for the Kaduna and Yaba
laboratories of staff, equipment, reference standards, reagents and other
chemicals, books and journals; (ii) provision of vehicles, office equipment
and staff for the Inspectorate Unit of FMOH; (iii) construction, equipping
and staffing of three basic testing laboratories in Warri or Calabar, Kano
and Port Harcourt; and (iv) provision of staff, reference books and
periodicals and data processing and office equipment to the Drugs
Registration and Information Unit of FMOH.

Part B:   Improving Health Workers Skills

(1)       Improving health workers skills at the State and Local Government
levels in the Project States, including: (i) in-service training of health
workers in (A) the proper use of drugs, (B) cost recovery and operation of
DRFs, (C) communication skills, and (D) management of drugs and other
supplies; (ii) workshops, initial training and periodic refresher training
for health workers; (iii) provision of training Materials and equipment
(e.g., audio visual equipment and generators and a therapeutic manual for
every health worker); (iv) appointment of a training coordinator in each
Project State; and (v) fellowships for core staff.

(2)       (a)   Intensive training by FMOH’s Department of Primary Health
Care (DPHC) on a multi-state basis of core staff assigned to State essential
drugs programs.

    (b)   Conduct by DPHC of workshops for selected university and private
sector health specialists to prepare them to support the essential drugs
programs of the States.

    (c)   Preparation by DPHC of prototype training materials on essential
drugs for use by the Project States.

    (d)   Training of staff of the Federal teaching and specialist hospitals
in essential drugs management.

    (e)   Specialized overseas training of selected staff of the
Drug Registration and Information Unit, Inspectorate and Quality
Assurance Laboratories and the Essential Drugs Unit (DPHC) of
FMOH.

(3)       Revision of curricula in health sciences at schools of medicine,
nursing and pharmacy of the Borrower and the Project States including: (i)
adjustment of curricula in approximately 13 schools of medicine, 40 schools
of nursing and 6 schools of pharmacy; (ii) introducing the teaching of
essential drugs as a subject in primary health care training programs; and
(iii) development for the schools of appropriate instructional materials.

(4)       Establishment by the Borrower of small drug information units in
the Federal Hospitals, including: (i) provision of computers and software,
office equipment, stationery and other supplies; and (ii) publication by
FMOH’s Drug Registration and Information Unit of professional bulletins and
newsletters on drugs.

Part C:   Changing Drug-Related Attitudes

(1)       Provision at the Federal, State and Local Government levels of
information, education and communication activities to convey to users of
health services the benefits of proper drug use and the need for cost
recovery.

(2)       (a)   Production in each of the Project States of mass media
materials and educational aids.

    (b)   Appointment in each of the Project States of an information,
education, communication coordinator.

    (c)   Workshops in each of the Project States to educate officials,



Local Government chairmen and councillors, religious and traditional
leaders, private practitioners, pharmacists and other influential leadership
groups in proper drug use and practices.

(3)       Production and distribution by the Borrower of materials for
educating  users of health services (e.g., radio and video programs,
educational aids and simple handouts on major diseases and proper drug use)
and conduct of a national campaign on proper drug use.

Part D:   Strengthening Institutional Capacity and Future Project
          Preparation

(1)       Strengthening by the Project States of the capacity of State and
local level health institutions to carry out essential drugs programs
including: (i) consolidation of existing drug supply activities of the State
Ministries of Health, the State Hospital Management Boards and the Local
Government Administrations; (ii) establishment of core units to manage the
State Essential Drugs Programs (SEDPs); (iii) audits of the SEDPS; and (iv)
provision of office equipment, furniture, vehicles and specialized training.

(2)       Strengthening by the Borrower of the capacity of Federal health
institutions to carry out essential drugs programs including: (i) a modest
addition to the staff of FMOH’s Department of Food and Drug Administration
and Control and of Hospital Services and Training; (ii) feasibility studies
of drug production in the private and public sectors; and (iii) a program
of institutional review and development activities, including an assessment
of indigenous skills and resources available to strengthen management
capabilities in the health sector.

(3)       Assisting other States of Nigeria to prepare future State
essential drugs programs.

                                 *   *   *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                        Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                    (Expressed in dollars)*

    January 15, 1995                          1,250,000
    July 15, 1995                             1,300,000
    January 15, 1996                          1,350,000
    July 15, 1996                             1,400,000
    January 15, 1997                          1,455,000
    July 15, 1997                             1,510,000
    January 15, 1998                          1,565,000
    July 15, 1998                             1,625,000
    January 15, 1999                          1,690,000
    July 15, 1999                             1,755,000
    January 15, 2000                          1,820,000
    July 15, 2000                             1,890,000
    January 15, 2001                          1,960,000
    July 15, 2001                             2,035,000
    January 15, 2002                          2,115,000
    July 15, 2002                             2,195,000
    January 15, 2003                          2,280,000
    July 15, 2003                             2,365,000
    January 15, 2004                          2,455,000
    July 15, 2004                             2,550,000
    January 15, 2005                          2,650,000
    July 15, 2005                             2,750,000
    January 15, 2006                          2,855,000
    July 15, 2006                             2,965,000
    January 15, 2007                          3,080,000
    July 15, 2007                             3,195,000
    January 15, 2008                          3,320,000
    July 15, 2008                             3,445,000
    January 15, 2009                          3,575,000



    July 15, 2009                             3,700,000

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04
(b) of the General Conditions:

    Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                            The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
                            per annum) applicable to the balance
                            outstanding on the Loan on the day of
                            prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but               0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                 0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not              0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not              0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before               1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.  Bidders for contracts to manufacture or supply drugs required under the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  (a)   Goods (other than drugs) procured by FMOH and estimated to cost
an amount equivalent to $60,000 or more but less than $300,000 per bid
package up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent and
all works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures



satisfactory to the Bank.

    (b)   Drugs procured by FMOH estimated to cost an amount equivalent to
$300,000 or less per bid package up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.  Drugs required in health emergencies duly declared by Federal or State
authorities and items or groups of items (other than drugs) estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to less than $60,000 up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $1,500,000 may be procured by the Borrower under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three local or international suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.  The following items may be purchased by direct contracting from original
suppliers or sources in accordance with paragraph 3.5 (b) and (c) of the
Guidelines: (i) books, journals and other items of a proprietary nature
obtainable only from one source; and (ii) additional equipment compatible
with existing equipment and spare parts available from a sole source.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of Prequalification:

    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

2.  Review of invitations to bid and proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to goods estimated to cost per bid package: (i) in
the case of FMOH $500,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) in the case of a
Project State: (A) $300,000 or more equivalent for drugs; and (B) $100,000
or more equivalent for goods (other than drugs) the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d)
of said Appendix shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
subparagraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

    (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) above,
the first bidding documents prepared by FMOH or a Project State under both
local and international competitive bidding procedures shall be subject to
prior review by the Bank.

    (d)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.02 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement.

2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para. graph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance



with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                           FMOH Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(e), (2)(e),
(3)(e) and (4) (b) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account for FMOH pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits whichdo not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
                Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
                in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or



    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                    Actions Referred to in Section 3.04
                             of this Agreement

1.  (a)   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than
January 1, 1991 proposals satisfactory to the Bank for the systematic
updating of its Essential Drugs List (the Federal Essential Drugs List).

    (b)   The Borrower shall not revise the Federal Essential Drugs List
more than once every year.

    (c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments
any revisions the Borrower proposes to make in the Federal Essential Drugs
List.

    (d)   The Borrower undertakes that only drugs listed on the Federal
Essential Drugs List shall be procured and financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.

    (e)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Federal Drug Revolving Fund is
adequately funded in accordance with the principle of full cost recovery.

2.  The Borrower shall: (i) no later than October 31 of 1990 and of each
year thereafter furnish to the Bank in respect of the Project its work
program and budget for the year of the Project following the year in which
the work program and budget are furnished; and (ii) no later than January
1, 1991 commence the following actions to assist the Federal hospitals in
the effective provision of drugs: (A) distribute to the Federal hospitals
initial drafts of the three basic procedural manuals on procurement,
supplies management, and cost recovery; (B) make available to the Federal
hospitals, initial patient education materials; and (C) undertake in-service
training on essential drugs of hospital staff responsible for out-patient



services.