World Bank Document


                                          CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3180 IND

                    Loan Agreement

            (Rural Electrification Project)

                        between

                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                 Dated April 30, 1990

                                         LOAN AGREEMENT

                 LOAN NUMBER 3180 IND

     AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS (B) pursuant to a letter agreement dated
June 3, 1987, between Japan and the Bank, Japan has
requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to
administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for
the financing of certain programs and projects supported
by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such
letter agreement;

     WHEREAS (C) Japan has agreed to make available to
the Borrower a grant (the Japanese Grant) out of the said
funds to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A
(iii) (d) and B of the Project;

     WHEREAS (D) Part A of the Project will be carried
out by Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (hereinafter called
PLN) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PLN part
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and PLN;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;

     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

     (c)  "Governing Laws" means Law No. 19 of 1960 and
Law No. 9 of 1969, Government Regulation No. 18 of 1972
and Government Regulation No. 54 of 1981, Government
Regulation No. 3 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 28 of
1983, Government Regulation No. 10 of 1989, Law No. 15 of
1985 and any other legal provisions in force at any time
governing the organization and operations of PLN as any
of them may be amended or supplemented from time to time;
and

     (d)  "Special Deposit Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of three hundred twenty-nine million dollars
($329,000,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special



deposit account in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Deposit Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1994 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower or such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued



     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July I or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall: (i)
through MOC, carry out Part B of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, rural electrification,
cooperatives, financial, administrative and managerial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Part B of the Project; and (ii) shall cause PLN to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of PLN therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PLN to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.

     (b)  The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the
Loan relend to PLN an amount equivalent to $325,000,000
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.

     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

     (d)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of: (a) the goods and consultants’
services required for Part A of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project



Agreement; and (b) the goods and consultants’ services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by PLN pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part
B of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part of the
Project or any part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, in respect of Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to



               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

     Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

     (a)  review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s
investment plan for the next fiscal year before its final
approval by the Borrower, in order to enable the Bank to
express its views on the priorities assigned to the
investments included under such plan and on the balance
among the generating transmission and distribution of
electric power likely to result from such investments;
and

     (b)  review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s
development plan and associated financial forecast and
financing plan, and take appropriate measures to
facilitate the access of PLN to all possible sources of
required finance.

     Section 4.03. The provision of Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement supersedes the provisions of Sections 4.01
(b) and 4.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement dated July 21,
1989, entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for
purposes of Loans 3097-IND and 3098-IND (Power Sector
Efficiency Project and Paiton Thermal Power Project),
respectively.

     Section 4.04. Without limitation to the provisions
of Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, by January 31 of each year, commencing on January
31, 1991, and until the completion of the Project,
exchange views with the Bank regarding PLN’s proposed
rural electrification investment plan for the next fiscal
year, and, thereafter, taking into account the Bank’s
comments, if any, approve such rural electrification
investment plan.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  PLN shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that PLN will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (c)  Any of the Governing Laws shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of PLN to
efficiently carry out its activities, including its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of PLN or for the



suspension of its operations.

     (e)  PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have
been taken by PLN or by others whereby any of the
property of PLN shall or may be distributed among its
creditors; and

     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:

               (A)  The right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                    or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing there for;

               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.

          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Bank that:

               (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
                    termination or prematuring is not
                    caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its
                    obligations under such agreement;
                    and

               (B)  adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

     (b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (c),
(d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur; and

     (c)  the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
PLN.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the



opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by PLN, and is legally binding
upon PLN in accordance with its terms; and

     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and PLN in
accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 2458
          Jakarta, Indonesia

          Cable address:           Telex:

               FINMINISTRY                   44319
DEPKEU-IA
               Jakarta                  45799 DJMLN-IA
     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

               By /s/ A. R. Ramly
                              Authorized Representative



               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ R. J. Cheetham
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Equipment and                    100% of foreign
   materials (ex-                       expenditures,
   cluding concrete                     100% of local
   power line                           expenditures
   poles):                              (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 65%
   (a) under Part A   239,000,000       of local ex-
       of the                           penditures for
       Project                          other items pro-
                                        cured locally
   (b) under Part B     1,700,000
       of the
       Project

(2)    Concrete power  51,000,000       80% of local
   line poles                           expenditures
                                        (ex-factory cost)

(3)    Consultants’                     100%
   services:

   (a) under Part A     2,400,000
       of the
       Project

   (b) under Part B     1,000,000
       of the
       Project

(4)    Training:                        100%

   (a) under Part A     2,000,000
       of the
       Project

   (b) under Part B       900,000
       of the
       Project

(5)    Unallocated     31,000,000

       TOTAL          329,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from



the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objective of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in developing and implementing an efficient
rural electricity program in Indonesia.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

          (i)  Implementation of PLN’s rural
               electrification investment program for
               PLN’s fiscal years 1990-91 and 1991-92,
               including the construction of rural
               electricity facilities to provide
               electricity to about 4,500 new villages.

          (ii) Development and implementation, on a
               pilot basis, of a program for increasing
               productive use of electricity by small
               businesses in Cabang Sibolga and Binjai
               in North Sumatra, Cabang Ujung Pandang in
               South Sulawesi, and Cabang Surakarta and
               Yogyakarta in Central Java.

          (iii)     Provisions of technical assistance
                    to, inter alia: (a) upgrade PLN’s
                    planning capability for the pre-
                    paration of a master plan for rural
                    electrification; (b) develop
                    appropriate rural electrification
                    technical specifications and
                    construction standards as well as
                    standardized/computerized bid
                    documents; (c) develop and implement
                    a data base and management
                    information system to monitor
                    country-wide PLN’s rural
                    electrification activities and
                    operations; and (d) carry out Part A
                    (ii) of the Project.

          (iv) Carrying out of training programs for
               PLN’s managerial and technical staff
               responsible for rural electrification
               operations.

Part B:

          (i)  Development and implementation of an
               action program to strengthen the role of
               village organizations and cooperatives in
               carrying out rural electrification
               activities, including the training of the
               personnel of such organizations and
               cooperatives and, on a pilot basis, the



               implementation of management services
               arrangements for the operation and
               maintenance of selected PLN’s rural power
               schemes/systems.

          (ii) Strengthening of the rural
               electrification functions of the
               Directorate General of Cooperatives
               Business Promotion (Direktorat Jenderal
               Bina Usaha Koperasi) of the Borrower’s
               Ministry of Cooperatives through, inter
               alia, the carrying out of an organization
               and management study, training of the
               relevant staff responsible for
               management, planning and monitoring.

          (iii)     Provision of technical assistance,
                    training equipment and relevant
                    computer software packages for Parts
                    B (i) and B (ii) of the Project.

                        *  *  *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1993.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in
dollars)*

October 15, 1995                             5,990,000
April 15, 1996                          6,220,000
October 15, 1996                             6,465,000
April 15, 1997                          6,715,000
October 15, 1997                             6,975,000
April 15, 1998                          7,245,000
October 15, 1998                             7,525,000
April 15, 1999                          7,815,000
October 15, 1999                             8,120,000
April 15, 2000                          8,435,000
October 15, 2000                             8,760,000
April 15, 2001                          9,100,000
October 15, 2001                             9,450,000
April 15, 2002                          9,820,000
October 15, 2002                           10,200,000
April 15, 2003                        10,595,000
October 15, 2003                           11,005,000
April 15, 2004                        11,430,000
October 15, 2004                           11,875,000
April 15, 2005                        12,335,000
October 15, 2005                           12,810,000
April 15, 2006                        13,310,000
October 15, 2006                           13,825,000
April 15, 2007                        14,360,000
October 15, 2007                           14,915,000
April 15, 2008                        15,495,000
October 15, 2008                           16,095,000
April 15, 2009                        16,720,000
October 15, 2009                           17,365,000
April 15, 2010                        18,030,000

____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.



                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment,
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but                       0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but                       0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

     Training manuals, training equipment and aids and
computer software/hardware packages estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the



Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program

1.   The Borrower shall, through the Directorate General
of Cooperatives Business Promotion (Direktorat Jenderal
Bina Usaha Koperasi) of its Ministry of Cooperatives:

     (a)  develop and implement an action program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen the rural
electrification functions of the Directorate General of
Cooperatives Business Promotion, including the carrying
out of an organization and management study under terms
of reference approved by the Bank, and staff training;
and

     (b)  develop and implement an action program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen the role of
village cooperatives and organizations in rural
electrification activities, including personnel training
and the carrying out, on a pilot basis, of management
services arrangements with PLN.

                      SCHEDULE 6

                Special Deposit Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) (b), (3) (b), and (4) (b) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of roods
and services required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and



     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Deposit
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Deposit Account shall be
made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance
with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Deposit Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Deposit Account
shall be made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Deposit Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Deposit
               Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Deposit Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Deposit
               Account such amount as the Borrower shall
               have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the
               Special Deposit Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
               Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other
               evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Deposit Account, the Borrower shall, at such time
as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Deposit Account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan



allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Deposit
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Deposit Account: (i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Deposit Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank
into the Special Deposit Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Deposit
Account will not be required to cover further payments
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Deposit Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.