World Bank Document


                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3148 PAK

                    Loan Agreement

            (Rural Electrification Project)

                        between

             ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated February 2, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3148 PAK

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1990, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement between
the Borrower and the International Development
Association (the Association) of even date herewith (the
Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  the Borrower has also requested the Association
to provide additional financial assistance toward the
financing of the Project and by the Development Credit
Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twenty-nine million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 29,100,000) (the Credit);

     (C)  the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed
on account of expenditures in respect of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in this Agreement are made;

     (D)  the Project will be carried out by Water and
Power Development Authority of Pakistan (WAPDA) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance,

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



the Borrower will make available to WAPDA the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit
Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith among the Association, the Bank and WAPDA

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions, the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Project Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Development Credit Agreement"
means the agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-three million
dollars ($123,000,000).

     Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December
31, 1995 or such later date as the Bank shall establish.
The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus



one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July l, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

         (iii) "Semester" means the first six
               months or the second six months of a
               calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

                    "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest
               on the principal amount of the Loan
               withdrawn and outstanding from time to
               time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
               the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
               determined in respect of the preceding
               Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
               (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
               specified in Section 2.06 of this
               Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
               interest accrued on the principal amount
               outstanding during the preceding Interest
               Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."

                    "(b) As soon as practicable after
               the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall
               notify the Borrower of the Cost of
               Qualified Borrowings determined in
               respect of such Quarter."

                    "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a
               three-month period commencing on January
               1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
               calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each
year.



     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the
principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.  (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this
Section, Sections 2.02 (b), 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 4.01, 4.02,
4.03 and 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement and
Schedules 1, 2 and 3 thereto are incorporated in the Loan
Agreement, with the following modifications in said
Sections (except for Section 3.01 (b)) and Schedule 2
unless the context otherwise requires:

           (i) the term "Association" shall be read as
               "Bank";

          (ii) the term "Credit" and "Credit Account"
               shall be read as "Loan" and "Loan
               Account"; and

         (iii) the term "this Agreement" shall be read
               as "the Development Credit Agreement".

     (b)  So long as any part of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement shall remain
outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified
otherwise by the Bank:

           (i) all actions taken, including approvals
               given, by the Association pursuant to any
               of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the
               Development Credit Agreement enumerated
               in paragraph (a) of this Section, as well
               as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the
               Development Credit Agreement, shall be
               deemed to be taken or given in the name
               and on behalf of both the Association and
               the Bank; and

          (ii) all information or documentation
               furnished by the Borrower to the
               Association pursuant to the provisions of
               any of such Sections of the Development
               Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
               shall be deemed to be furnished to both
               the Association and Bank.

     Section 3.02.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by WAPDA
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions the events set out in Section 5.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement are specified as
additional events, provided, however, that the term
"Association" wherever it appears in such Section shall
be read as "Bank".

     Section 4.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the



General Conditions the events set out in Section 5.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement are specified as
additional events, provided, however, that the term
"Association" wherever it appears in such Section shall
be read as "Bank".

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as
an additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.03.  If the Development Credit Agreement
terminates prior to the termination of this Agreement,
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect between the Borrower and the Bank.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01.  The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad, Pakistan

          Cable address:           Telex:

               ECONOMIC                 ECDIV-05-634
               Pakistan

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.



               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

               By /s/ Mueen Afzal
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Kopp
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                       SCHEDULE

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

May 1, 1995                                  2,240,000
November 1, 1995                             2,330,000
May 1, 1996                                  2,420,000
November 1, 1996                             2,510,000
May 1, 1997                                  2,610,000
November 1, 1997                             2,710,000
May 1, 1998                                  2,815,000
November 1, 1998                             2,925,000
May 1, 1999                                  3,035,000
November 1, 1999                             3,155,000
May 1, 2000                                  3,275,000
November 1, 2000                             3,405,000
May 1, 2001                                  3,535,000
November 1, 2001                             3,670,000
May 1, 2002                                  3,815,000
November 1, 2002                             3,960,000
May 1, 2003                                  4,115,000
November 1, 2003                             4,275,000
May 1, 2004                                  4,440,000
November 1, 2004                             4,610,000
May 1, 2005                                  4,790,000
November 1, 2005                             4,975,000
May 1, 2006                                  5,165,000
November 1, 2006                             5,365,000
May 1, 2007                                  5,575,000
November 1, 2007                             5,790,000
May 1, 2008                                  6,015,000
November 1, 2008                             6,245,000
May 1, 2009                                  6,490,000
November 1, 2009                             6,740,000

__________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     The following premiums are specified for the
purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:



     Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the balance
                              outstanding on the Loan
                              on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but                   0.85
     not more than sixteen years
     before maturity

More than sixteen years but                  0.90
     not more than eighteen years
     before maturity

More than eighteen years before              1.00
     maturity