World Bank Document


                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3139 MA

                    Loan Agreement

             (Rubber Industry Smallholders
            Development Authority Project)

                        between

                       MALAYSIA

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated January 11, 1990

                                    LOAN NUMBER 3139 MA

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1990, between MALAYSIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;

     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Rubber
Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) with
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to RISDA the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and RISDA;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and RISDA of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;

     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and RISDA
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

     (c)  "Act" means the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority Act, 1972 (Act 85);

     (d)  "RISDA" means the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority established and operating under the
Act;

     (e)  "NARSCO" means the National Rubber Smallholders
Cooperative established and operating under the
Cooperative Societies Act, 1948 (Act 33);

     (f)  "Scheme 1956" means RISDA’s nurseries
management program established and operating under the
Rubber Industry Smallholders Planting Materials Scheme,
1956;

     (g)  "Scheme 1959" means RISDA’s estates management
program established and operating under the Rubber
Industry (Small holders) (Improved Supply) Planting
Materials Scheme, 1959; and

     (h)  "Write-Off Committee" means the committee
established by the Ministry of Lands and Regional
Development under the Cabinet Directive dated March 17,
1986.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of seventy-one million dollars ($71,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the



proceeds of the Loan.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1993 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or six months of a calendar
                    year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

               "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
          the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
          outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
          each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the
          preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
          percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
          the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
          principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
          rates applicable during such Interest Period."



               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end
          of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
          Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."

               "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
          period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
          1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause
RISDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of RISDA therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
RISDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

     (b)  In order to assist RISDA in carrying out Part
D of the Project, the Borrower shall on lend the
equivalent of $8,600,000 of the proceeds of the Loan to
RISDA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and RISDA, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

     (c)  In order to assist RISDA in carrying out the
remainder of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available as a grant to RISDA the equivalent of
$62,400,000 of the proceeds of the Loan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.

     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by RISDA
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by September 30,



1990 and by September 30 of each year thereafter consult
with the Bank on RISDA’s annual work program and funding
for the following year.

     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain the
Write-Off Committee, with composition and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in
               accordance with sound accounting
               practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii) ensure that all records (contracts,
               orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least
               one year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
               was made; and

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (ii) have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested, including a separate opinion
               by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with
               the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be
               relied upon to support the related with-
               drawals; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

                       ARTICLE V

                 Remedies of the Bank

     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:



     (a)  RISDA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that RISDA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (c)  The Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of RISDA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of RISDA or for the
suspension of its operations.

     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified, namely, the events specified in paragraphs (c)
and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                      ARTICLE VI

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and RISDA; and

     (b)  the statements and reports referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, covering
the period up to the end of the Borrower’s fiscal year
1987, have been received by the Bank.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by RISDA, and is legally binding
upon RISDA in accordance with its terms; and

     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and RISDA and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and RISDA in
accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VII

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:



     For the Borrower:

          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia

          Cable address:           Telex:

               TREASURY              MA 30242
               Kuala Lumpur          MA 32369

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD             440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                     64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               MALAYSIA

               By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Replanting and  47,800,000       34%
   maintenance
   under Part A
   of the Project

(2)    Expenditures    18,100,000       34%



   under Parts B
   through F of
   the Project

(3)    Vehicles and     3,900,000       100% of foreign
   equipment under                      expenditures,
100%
   Part G of the                        of local expendi-
   Project                              tures (ex-
factory),
                                        and 75% of local
                                        expenditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(4)    Consultants’     1,200,000       100%
   services and
   overseas
   training

       TOTAL           71,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:

     (a)  for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $7,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1990; or

     (b)  for expenditures on account of the development,
planting or maintenance of cocoa.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to increase
productivity and incomes of rubber small holders, and to
improve RISDA’s institutional efficiency.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives.

Part A:   Replanting and Maintenance

1.   Replanting with rubber, oil palm and other crops on
about 101,500 hectares of areas previously under rubber.

2.   Early maintenance of replanted areas.

Part B:   Rehabilitation of Replantings

     Rehabilitation of replantings on about 7,500
hectares of land.

Part C:   Agricultural Inputs



     Provision of agricultural inputs for replanted
areas.

Part D:   Mini-Estates Development Support

     Supplementary support for replanting under the
mini-estates systems.

Part E:   Infrastructure Development

     Construction and maintenance of about 300 kilometers
of agricultural access roads, including bridges and
drainage works for areas replanted under the
simultaneous, group and mini-estates systems.

Part F:   Smallholder Extension and Training

1.   Support for RISDA’s existing extension program, and
for improvements in the provision of extension services
to small holders.

2.   Agricultural training for small holders, with
particular emphasis on women.

Part G:   Operational Support

     Provision of vehicles and equipment in support of
RISDA operations, including equipment for computerization
of RISDA’s management information system.

Part H:   Staff Training

     Training of RISDA staff to improve capabilities and
skills.

Part I:   Studies

     Completion of studies of:

1.   Organizational and management models for the
mini-estates system of replanting.

2.   (a)  Cooperative structure for small holders served
by RISDA.

     (b)  Restructuring and strengthening the National
Rubber Smallholders Cooperative.

3.   Organizational options for Scheme 1956 and Scheme
1959.

4.   Computerization at the RISDA Muar regional office.

5.   Monitoring and evaluation system.

                        *  *  *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1992.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in
dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

     beginning September 1, 1995



     through   September 1, 2006             2,960,000

On March 1, 2007                             2,920,000

_______________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawals. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                 Premium

                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment, multiplied
                              by:

Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but                       0.88
     not more than 15 years
     before maturity

More than 15 years before                    1.00
     maturity