World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3255 TUN

              (Employment and Training Fund Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                     Dated September 24, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3255 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
coincides with the calendar year commencing January 1 and ending
December 31;

      (c)   "Governorates" means the administrative divisions of the
Borrower, as organized by the Borrower’s Decree, dated June 21,
1956, as amended by the Borrower’s Law No. 74-47, dated June 5,
1974;

      (d)   "MFPE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Vocational
Training and Employment (Ministcre de la Formation Professionnelle
et de l’Emploi), established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Decree No. 90-875, dated May 25, 1990, or any successor
thereto;

      (e)   "ETF" means the Employment Training Fund (Fonds
d’Insertion et d’Adaptation Professionnelle), to be established and
thereafter maintained by the Borrower under the supervisory
authority of MFPE pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement;

      (f)   "Employment Training Activities"  means the activities
to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Loan and carried
out under the supervisory authority of MFPE, in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the ETF Procedural Manual (as such
term is defined hereinafter);

      (g)   "ETF Procedural Manual" means the procedural manual
(Manuel de Procedure du FIAP) to be prepared by the Borrower for
contracting, processing, financing and monitoring the carrying out
of the Employment Training Activities, referred to in Section 3.02
(b) of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Beneficiary Governorate" means each Governorate which
has fulfilled the eligibility criteria set forth in the ETF
Procedural Manual; and

      (i)   "Recruitment Contracts Program" means the employment
promotion program established pursuant to the provisions of the
Borrower’s Decree No. 1154, dated August 28, 1987.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.



      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period



      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MFPE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, labor and employ-
ment practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain, or shall cause to be established and thereafter main-
tained, under the supervisory authority of MFPE and in a form
satisfactory to the Bank, an employment training fund (the ETF) for
financing the carrying out of the Employment Training Activities;
and

      (b)   the Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter furnish to the Bank an ETF
procedural manual (the ETF Procedural Manual) setting forth the
terms and conditions and related procedures for contracting,
processing, financing and monitoring the carrying out of the
Employment Training Activities.

      Section 3.03. (a) Not later than December 31, 1990, the
Borrower shall appoint and thereafter maintain a project coordinator
(the Project Coordinator) in MFPE, with functions, qualifications
and terms of reference all satisfactory to the Bank, and said
Project Coordinator shall be responsible for supervising and
coordinating the overall day-to-day administration and implementa-
tion of the Project and shall be assisted by the project managers
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section; and

      (b)   the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action
necessary to ensure that a project manager is maintained in each
Beneficiary Governorate for the purposes of, among other things,
assisting the Project Coordinator, referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, in respect of the overall responsibility for carrying
out the Project.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain an ETF national management committee (the ETF National
Management Committee), with membership and terms of reference all
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of supervising the
carrying out of Part A of the Project.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure that, not later than December 31, 1990, no contractual or
similar arrangement shall be entered into under the Recruitment
Contracts Program.

      Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 1991, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment,
a study on the cost-benefit analysis of the then current employment
promotion programs within the Borrower’s territory, and shall
promptly thereafter, on the basis of said review and taking into
account the Bank’s recommendations, take all action necessary to
carry out said recommendations.

      Section 3.07. Not later than December 31, 1992, the Borrower



shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment,
a mid-term evaluation study of the quantitative and qualitative
impact on the Borrower’s labor market of the ETF-financed activities
under Part A of the Project, and shall promptly thereafter, on the
basis of said review and taking into account the Bank’s recommenda-
tions, take all action necessary to increase the effectiveness of
such impact in respect of alleviating unemployment within the
Borrower’s territory.

      Section 3.08. Not later than June 30, 1991, the Borrower shall
take all action necessary to ensure that the maximum allowable
period available to MFPE’s employment offices to identify a suitable
candidate before a commercial enterprise may advertise a notice for
employment shall be reduced to two (2) work days.

      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure that the MFPE’s multi-service center shall at all times
charge and collect from the end beneficiary enterprises the cost of
in-company training and staff selection services rendered by such
center to said enterprises, such costs to be determined in accor-
dance with a methodology and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                  audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine (9) months after the
                  end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)



                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower shall have established, or caused to be
established, the ETF in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

      (b)   the Borrower shall have furnished, or caused to be
furnished, to the Bank the ETF Procedural Manual in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (c)   the Borrower shall have established, or caused to be
established, the ETF National Management Committee in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. The date on hundred twenty (120) days after date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Regional Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
            Place Ali Zouaoui
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

                                          Telex:

                                            15117

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),



                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                  By /s/ Mustapha Nabli
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1) Expenditures               9,800,000        50% of amounts
    under Part                                  disbursed for
    of the Project                              stipends,
                                                training services
                                                and related
                                                materials and
                                                consumables

(2) Goods (including           1,300,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles) and                               expenditures,
    equipment under                             80% of local
    Part B of the                               expenditures
    Project

(3) Consultants’                 700,000        100%
    services and
    fellowships
    under Part B
    of the Project

(4) Unallocated                  200,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                12,000,000
                              ==========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the



currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;

    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

    (c)  the term "consumables" means goods and materials needed for
carrying out the Employment Training Activities, such as consumable
materials, small tools and various provisions.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to accelerate the
adaptation of the Borrower’s labor force to existing employment
opportunities within the Borrower’s territory, through improved
training and labor market intermediation; and (ii) to consolidate
the Borrower’s existing human capital by developing in-company
training activities within the Borrower’s territory.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

    The financing of specific employment and training activities to
facilitate the placement of unemployed persons and improve the
productivity of those employed within the Borrower’s terrority,
which activities shall include the following: (a) training for job
placement in a commercial enterprise; (b) training for installation
in an independent economic activity; (c) in-company training and
extension services; (d) sub-contracting employment and training
activities to training and placement enterprises; and (e) provision
of allowances for employee interview and relocation.

Part B:

1.  Developing and carrying out an integrated institutional
development program to strengthen the capabilities of MFPE’s
agencies responsible for employment and training which program shall
include the following: (a) development of a multi-service center for
providing human resources development services to commercial
enterprises; (b) development, updating and dissemination of
occupational and educational information, and strengthening of
regional orientation units; (c) monitoring of labor market and
training activities; and (d) management and evaluation of ETF.

2.  Acquisition and utilization of vehicles, micro-computer hardware
and software and office equipment required to carry out the
foregoing.

3. Provision of technical assistance and training to assist in the
foregoing.

                           *     *     *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                                 Payment of
Principal



Date Payment Due                                (expressed in
dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

     beginning May 15, 1996
     through   November 15, 2007                500,000

_____________________________

*   The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
    Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                          Premium

                                                The interest rate
(expressed as a percentage per annum) applic-able to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                       0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                       0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                                     0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                        0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years                         1.00
     before maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.    Procurement of Goods

Part A:  International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more
each.

Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures



    Local Shopping:

    Sundry equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $350,000, and materials and consumables estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,600,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  (a)  With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.  The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

    (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this



Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:

    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)  (i)                            For replenishment of the
                                        Special Account, the Bor-
                                        rower shall furnish to the
                                        Bank requests for deposits
                                        into the Special Account at
                                        such intervals as the Bank
                                        shall specify.

         (ii)                           Prior to or at the time of
                                        each such request, the Bor-
                                        rower shall furnish to the
                                        Bank the documents and oth-
                                        er evidence required pursu-
                                        ant to paragraph 4 of this
                                        Schedule for the payment or
                                        payments in respect of
                                        which replenishment is re-
                                        quested. On the basis of
                                        each such request, the Bank
                                        shall, on behalf of the
                                        Borrower,  withdraw from
                                        the Loan Account and depos-
                                        it into the Special Account
                                        such amount as the Borrower
                                        shall have requested and as
                                        shall have been shown by
                                        said documents and other
                                        evidence to have been paid
                                        out of the Special Account
                                        for Eligible Expenditures.
                                        All such deposits shall be
                                        withdrawn by the Bank from
                                        the Loan Account under the
                                        respective Eligible Catego-
                                        ries, and in the respective
                                        equivalent amounts, as
                                        shall have been justified
                                        by said documents and other
                                        evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:

    (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the



General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.  (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

    (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.