World Bank Document


                                         CONFORMED COPY

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3158 IND

                    Loan Agreement

  (Second Secondary Education and Management Project)

                        between

                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                          and

         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT

                Dated February 12, 1990

                                   LOAN NUMBER 3158 IND

                    LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1990, between REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                       ARTICLE I

            General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



meanings therein set forth and the term "Special Account"
means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.

                      ARTICLE II

                       The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of one hundred fifty-four million two hundred
thousand dollars ($154,200,000) as the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.

     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month
               period ending on the date immediately
               preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
               the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost, as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per



               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to
               fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
     principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
     outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
     Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
     determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
     plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
     of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
     Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
     on the principal amount outstanding during the
     preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
     applicable during such Interest Period."

          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
     each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
     the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
     respect of such Quarter."

          "(c) (iii) ’Quarter’ means a three-month
     period commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
     October 1 in a calendar year."

     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the interest rate for the Interest
Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall be
seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each
year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE III

               Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
educational, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.



     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                      ARTICLE IV

                  Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;

          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.

     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;

          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to
                    examine such records; and

          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal



               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.

                       ARTICLE V

              Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                      ARTICLE VI

       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Minister of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia

          Cable address:           Telex:

               FINMINISTRY                   44319
DEPKEU-IA
               Jakarta                  45799 DJMLN-IA

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:           Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

               By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                              Authorized Representative

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR



                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

               By /s/ R. J. Cheetham
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia

                      SCHEDULE 1

        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed

(1)    Equipment,      57,200,000       100% of foreign
   books and                            expenditures,
   educational                          100% of local
   materials                            expenditures
   (including                           (ex-factory
   delivery)                            cost) and 65%
                                        of local ex-
                                        penditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally

(2)    Technical       11,700,000       100%
   Assistance
   under Parts A,
   B and C of the
   Project

(3)    Fellowships     36,600,000       100%

(4)    Training:

   (a) in-service      34,600,000       50%
       teacher
       and other
       training

   (b) management       3,000,000       50%
       training

   (c) examinations     1,500,000       80%
       trainings

   (d) development        600,000       100%
       of monitor-
       ing and
       evaluation

(5)    Studies and      2,700,000       100%
   preparation
   of future
   projects

(6)    Technical        1,500,000       100%
   Assistance and
   operating costs
   (excluding
   salaries) under
   Part D of the
   Project



(7)    Unallocated      4,800,000

       TOTAL          154,200,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures
in respect of Category (4) (b) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Borrower shall
have commenced implementation of the Action Program
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

                      SCHEDULE 2

              Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve
the quality and sustainability of the Borrower’s
secondary education system, through teacher upgrading
programs, developing and coordinating the examinations
system and improving the quality of science education
through the provision of educational materials; and (b)
to improve management capacity within the education
sector.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:

1.   (a)   Upgrading about 200,000 teachers in the
secondary education system in the fields of science,
mathematics, English, Bahasa Indonesia, and social
sciences, including training teacher instructors and key
teachers.

     (b)  Improving secondary schools by supplying
curriculum guides in the above fields, as well as student
and teacher materials.

2.   Developing an environmental studies program for
secondary schools.

3.   Improving the quality of secondary science education
by providing new science equipment, testing prototypes,
training teachers and laboratory assistants in its use
and maintenance, developing a national computerized
system for supplying and restocking science equipment,
and establishing permanent annual funding for its supply,
restocking and maintenance.

4.   Developing in all provinces a permanent and
formalized examinations system.

Part B:

1.   Establishing a management information system for the



Ministry of Education and Culture, with special focus on
personnel, logistics and financial operations.

2.   Improving data collection and its processing,
management and feedback to schools at central, provincial
and district levels.

3.   Improving management capabilities of the Borrower’s
Ministry of Education and Culture by:

     (a)  assessing training needs, and carrying out
training, including data processing and "hands-on"
practical training, at central, provincial, and district
levels; and

     (b)  providing training in monitoring and
evaluation.

Part C:

1.   Carrying out studies by the Borrower’s Directorate
of General Secondary Education, to address key quality
and equity issues in secondary education, including
"Policy Options for Improved Equity in Secondary
Schooling", "Recurrent Input Needs of Secondary
Education", and "Public Support for Private Education".

2.   Preparation of future projects in the secondary
education sub sector and management capacity within the
education sector.

3.   Provision of technical assistance and fellowships to
carry out Parts A, B and C.l and 2 above.

Part D:

     Coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the
various activities under the Project, including technical
assistance.

                        *  *  *

     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1995.

                      SCHEDULE 3

                 Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*

October 1, 1995                              2,810,000
April 1, 1996                           2,920,000
October 1, 1996                              3,030,000
April 1, 1997                           3,150,000
October 1, 1997                              3,270,000
April 1, 1998                           3,395,000
October 1, 1998                              3,530,000
April 1, 1999                           3,665,000
October 1, 1999                              3,805,000
April 1, 2000                           3,955,000
October 1, 2000                              4,105,000
April 1, 2001                           4,265,000
October 1, 2001                              4,430,000
April 1, 2002                           4,605,000
October 1, 2002                              4,780,000
April 1, 2003                           4,965,000
October 1, 2003                              5,160,000
April 1, 2004                           5,360,000
October 1, 2004                              5,565,000



April 1, 2005                           5,780,000
October 1, 2005                              6,005,000
April 1, 2006                           6,235,000
October 1, 2006                              6,480,000
April 1, 2007                           6,730,000
October 1, 2007                              6,990,000
April 1, 2008                           7,260,000
October 1, 2008                              7,540,000
April 1, 2009                           7,830,000
October 1, 2009                              8,135,000
April 1, 2010                           8,450,000

______________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.

                Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

Time of Prepayment                      Premium

                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan on
                              the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:

Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity

More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but                       0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity

More than 16 years but                       0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity

More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity

                      SCHEDULE 4

         Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I. Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).



Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Items which cannot be grouped in packages estimated
to cost $100,000 or more equivalent, and printing and
delivery services within Indonesia may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; provided that, such items and
services in packages estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$5,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the
Borrower’s procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.   Books, computer software and other educational
materials, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,100,000 equivalent may be procured, after
negotiations. by direct purchase from suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:

     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts
shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.

2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants



     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                      SCHEDULE 5

                Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The position of Head of Education/National
Coordinator for the Pemantapan Kerja Guru (PKG)
(in/on-service teacher training) of the Directorate of
General Secondary Education shall be a full-time position
and shall be filled either with one full time person or
at most two persons devoting at least one-half their time
to the position. The Head shall be appointed for a three
year term. Such appointment shall take place by July 1,
1990 .

     (b)  The positions for the three Project
Implementation Units and the Secretariat for the Project
Monitoring and Coordination Committee shall also be
filled by full-time staff or at most two persons devoting
at least one-half their time to each position. Key staff
within each Unit shall be appointed for a three year term
with such staff appointed by July l, 1990. New staff
shall have a three month overlap with the then existing
staff.

     (c)  By April 1, 1992, all vacant positions for
national specialists (in science, mathematics, Bahasa
Indonesia, English and social sciences, with suitable
qualifications and experience as teachers), in the PKG
shall have been appointed at the national and provincial
levels.

2.   The Borrower shall:

     (a)  by June l, 1991, establish within its Ministry
of Education and Culture, PKG examination teams with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.

     (b)  by February 1, 1993, establish in each
provincial education administrative office, functional
provincial examination teams with at least ten subject
specialists and an evaluation specialist, each with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.

3.   The Borrower shall by January l, 1992, furnish to
the Bank an action program, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the implementation of the management studies referred to
in Part C.l of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Such studies
shall be carried out under the coordination of the Office
of Educational and Cultural Research and Development, and
in consultation with the offices of the Secretariat
General and the Directorate General of Primary and
Secondary Education.

4.   The Borrower shall, by April 1, 1994, have taken all
necessary steps to provide permanent annual funding,
satisfactory to the Bank, for procurement, replenishment
and maintenance of science equipment for secondary
schools.

5.   The Borrower shall, in October of each year
commencing in 1990, carry out a comprehensive project



implementation review and shall discuss the results of
each such review with the Bank.

6.   The Borrower shall, by September 1, 1990, review the
results of the Integrated Management Study, and, based on
such review, by March 31, 1991, furnish to the Bank, for
comments, a detailed Action Program. Such Action Program
shall thereafter be implemented in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.

                      SCHEDULE 6

Special Account

1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(l), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule l to this Agreement;

     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $9,400,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
               requests for deposits into the Special
               Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.

          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Borrower shall furnish to
               the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
               Schedule for the payment or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures. All such deposits



               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
               Loan Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall
               have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special account:

     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.