World Bank Document


                                                     CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3218 PNG

                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)

                              between

             THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 24, 1990

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3218 PNG

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 1990, between THE INDEPENDENT
STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 27,
1990, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to request additional financing
from other donors in support of the Program; and

      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

                   "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
            Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
            purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
            shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
            scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the program referred to in
            the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by
            the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
            obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
            accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Kina" and "K" mean the currency of the Borrower; and

      (b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986).

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate



applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,



procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b)  The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Events of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and

      (b)   (i)    subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:

            (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the



                   proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Program shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated, in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                   agreements providing therefor; or

            (B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

            (ii)   Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
            apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
            of the Bank that:

            (A)    such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreements; and

            (B)    adequate funds required during the execution of
                   the Program are available to the Borrower from
                   other sources on terms and conditions consistent
                   with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified, namely, that
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii)
of that Section.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has submitted to Parliament draft
legislation, acceptable to the Bank, designed to improve procurement
procedures so as to expedite the award of contracts;

      (b)   the Borrower has submitted to Parliament draft
legislation, acceptable to the Bank, designed to expedite the
approval process of the Borrower relating to agreements between the
Borrower and external donors;

      (c)   the Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the
Bank, on the establishment of the new project cycle for public
investments as set out in the Borrower’s Project Cycle Procedural
Guidelines, dated April 1989; and

      (d)   the Borrower has established an Interdepartmental
Working Group on Structural Adjustment Implementation, responsible
to the Borrower’s Resource Management Committee, acceptable to the
Bank, to monitor the implementation of the Program.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister for Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:



      For the Borrower:

            Ministry for Finance and Planning
            Department of Finance and Planning
            Post Office Wards Strip
            Waigani, N.C.D.
            Papua New Guinea

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   TREASURER                     NE 23331
                   Boroko

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                         By /s/ Margaret M. Taylor
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:



   Group           Sub-group      Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and
                                  associated materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                  semi-precious stones, unworked
                                  or worked

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                  parts thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors

   Group           Sub-group      Description of Items

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals
                                  (except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971                --          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after March
1, 1990;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $20,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $25,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4



above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

      beginning March 1, 1996
      through   March 1, 2010                   1,665,000

On September 1, 2010                            1,715,000

____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, contracts
for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international



competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

      The international community should be notified in a timely
manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising
invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list, to
apply for prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower’s country and, in addition, in at least one of the
following forms:

      (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
            Forum, Business Edition; or

      (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
            journal of wide international circulation; or

      (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
            territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
            potential suppliers of the goods required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

      "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
international trade and specified in the bidding documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

3.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and

      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.

4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.



5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2  and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    The Borrower has adopted a budget for its fiscal year 1991
which proposes to maintain an overall balanced budgetary position in
accordance with the format agreed with the Bank.

2.    The Borrower has agreed to extend its policy of refraining
from external commercial borrowings for budgetary financing through
December 31, 1991.

3.    The Borrower has agreed to limit guaranteed and non-guaranteed
new external commercial borrowings by public commercial enterprises,
except for the Mineral Resources Development Corporation, to a
maximum of $25,000,000 equivalent during 1991.

4.    The Borrower has furnished to the Bank proposals for the
restructuring of its tax system, acceptable to the Bank.

5.    The Borrower has implemented tax measures that are consistent
with (i) the target of maintaining an overall balanced budgetary
position in 1991, and (ii) the proposals referred to in para-
graph 4 of this Schedule.

6.    The Borrower has initiated, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, the implementation of a medium-term public service
restructuring program, acceptable to the Bank, including
retrenchment of staff, revised staffing levels and revised
departmental structures.

7.    The Borrower has adopted a recurrent budget for 1991 of a size
and composition acceptable to the Bank, including: (i) a limit on
wages, salaries and other employee payments of its national and
provincial departments equal to K335,000,000; and (ii) an allocation
for maintenance works of at least K50,000,000.

8.    The Borrower has set out in its 1991 budget a Public
Investment Program of a composition acceptable to the Bank and has
increased such Program by about 7% in real terms over the Public
Investment Program set out in its revised 1990 budget.

9.    The Borrower has completed, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, the establishment of the new project cycle for public
investments, referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement.

10.   The Borrower has taken all measures necessary to ensure
satisfactory implementation of the legislation referred to in
Section 5.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement.

11.   The Borrower is implementing an exchange rate policy
acceptable to the Bank.

12.   The Borrower has (i) implemented, in a manner acceptable to
the Bank, its wage policy for 1990 agreed with the Bank, and
(ii) agreed to continue such a wage policy for 1991.

13.   The Borrower is implementing, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, measures for the reform of the institutional and regulatory



framework governing foreign investments.

14.   The Borrower is implementing, in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, a program, acceptable to the Bank, for the privatization or
liquidation of identified public investments and the
commercialization or privatization of identified public services.