World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3243 IND

      (Second Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 6, 1990

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3243 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987,
between Japan and the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the
Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by
Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported
by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter
agreement;

      (C)   Japan intends to make available to the Borrower a grant
(the Japanese Grant) in an amount of � 72,500,000, out of said funds
to assist the Borrower in carrying out a portion of the technical
assistance under the Project in accordance with the terms and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



conditions of the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the
Government of Japan (hereinafter the "Japan Grant Agreement"); and

      (D)   International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO)
intends to make available to the Borrower a grant of $800,000
equivalent (hereinafter referred to as the "ITTO Grant") to assist
in the financing of a portion of the overseas degree training costs
under the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "ITTO Grant Agreement") to
be entered into between the Borrower and the ITTO;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and "Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding



during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
                  amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
                  time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
                  the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
                  respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
                  of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
                  principal amount outstanding during the preceding
                  Interest Period, calculated at the rates
                  applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
                  Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
                  the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
                  respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
                  commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
                  October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, environmental, financial and forestry practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.



      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Without limitation on the above, the Borrower shall
ensure that appropriate numbers and types of vehicles are available
for use by the Project in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to
the Bank.

      Section 3.03. As part of its ongoing Human Resource
Development Study, the Borrower shall review the participation of
women forestry specialists in the Ministry of Forestry and shall
give satisfactory representation to women in the selection of
candidates for foreign training under the Project.

      Section 3.04. In carrying out the training under the Project,
the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1990, prepare an
action plan satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.05. In carrying out Part D.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that (a) the plans for the
parks are consistent with environmental carrying capacity and with
operational and maintenance funding realities, and (b) the plans for
the buffer zones shall improve the livelihood needs of local people.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request, including without limitation
                  on the foregoing, unaudited accounts not later
                  than five months after the end of each such year.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;



            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:

            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                  Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                  have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                  or

            (ii)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      (c)   The ITTO Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1990, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the overseas degree training costs
under the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01
(b) of this Agreement; and

      (b)   that the event specified in Section 5.01 (c) of this
Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effectiveness; Termination



      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
all conditions for the effectiveness of the Japan Grant Agreement,
other than the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, has been
fulfilled.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 2458
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY               44319 DEPKEU IA
                  Jakarta                   45799 DJMLN-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.          197688 (TRT)
                                             82987 (FTCC) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji



                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                             SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated
                           (Expressed in            % of
                              Dollar             Expenditures
      Category              Equivalent)         to be Financed

(1)   Civil works             2,800,000         55%

(2)   Equipment and           1,400,000         100% of foreign
      furniture                                 expenditures;
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost); and
                                                65% of other
                                                goods locally
                                                procured

(3)   Planting costs            600,000         60%
      under the
      forestry research
      program

(4)   Inspection services     4,700,000

     (a) to and including                       85%
         June 30, 1992

     (b) after June 30,                         45%
         1992

(5)   Training                2,900,000         100%

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated
                           (Expressed in            % of
                              Dollar             Expenditures
      Category              Equivalent)         to be Financed

(6)   Technical               6,600,000         100%
      assistance

(7)   Unallocated             1,000,000
                             __________

      TOTAL                  20,000,000
                             ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no



withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to reduce the pace of
deforestation, and to sustain and maximize the long-term benefits
from forest resources in Indonesia, including benefits for the local
people.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

1.    Improving the management of forestry operations by
concessionaires of about 50 million hectares of production forests,
including the training of managers and staff in better planning of
logging, skidding, and road construction; and the development of an
improved wood accounting system.

2.    Introduction of an improved concession inspection and audit
system, such system to: (a)  establish the amount of logs extracted
as a basis for royalty and fee assessment and collection, and (b)
ensure that environmental guidelines and appropriate silvicultural
practice are followed.

Part B:

      Preparation of a national master plan for reforestation of
about 10 million hectares, including a review and evaluation of land
tenure status of sites, training, and incentive, financing and
control mechanisms.

Part C:

1.    Strengthening the Borrower’s Agency for Forestry Research and
Development by improving planning, programming, monitoring,
evaluation, financial and economic analysis skills and developing a
forestry research master plan.

2.    Establishing a regional forestry research station and a
training center at Manokwari, Irian Jaya, including:

      (a)   construction of buildings for laboratory, staff housing
and office and training facilities;

      (b)   provision of related equipment and furniture;

      (c)   training of research station and training center staff;
and

      (d)   establishment of a forestry research program on about 11
sites for research on forest ecology, silviculture, tree
improvement, fire protection and nature conservation, and livelihood
needs of the local people, through the active participation of the
local people therein.

Part D:

1.    Reviewing and revising the National Conservation Plan for
terrestrial and marine conservation.

2.    Developing improved management and investment plans for ten
national parks and buffer zones around the parks with active
participation of the local people.

3.    Preparation of an integrated plan for the sustainable
multiple-use of mangrove forests and a conservation management plan



for a mangrove reserve.

Part E:

      Assisting the Minister of Forestry in policy formulation and
his supervisory duties by the provision of a highly qualified and
experienced resident forestry advisor, and short-term technical
assistance.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

March 1, 1996                             365,000
September 1, 1996                         380,000
March 1, 1997                             395,000
September 1, 1997                         410,000
March 1, 1998                             425,000
September 1, 1998                         440,000
March 1, 1999                             455,000
September 1, 1999                         475,000
March 1, 2000                             495,000
September 1, 2000                         515,000
March 1, 2001                             535,000
September 1, 2001                         555,000
March 1, 2002                             575,000
September 1, 2002                         595,000
March 1, 2003                             620,000
September 1, 2003                         645,000
March 1, 2004                             670,000
September 1, 2004                         695,000
March 1, 2005                             720,000
September 1, 2005                         750,000
March 1, 2006                             780,000
September 1, 2006                         810,000
March 1, 2007                             840,000
September 1, 2007                         875,000
March 1, 2008                             905,000
September 1, 2008                         940,000
March 1, 2009                             980,000
September 1, 2009                       1,015,000
March 1, 2010                           1,055,000
September 1, 2010                       1,085,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                    The interest rate expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:



Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                      0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    All civil works contracts, and contracts for office furniture
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however that equipment and
office furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

2.    Tree planting and nursery costs relating to forestry research
program implementation may be carried out under procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and with respect to each
contract for equipment and office furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.



Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II:  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    With respect to Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the
Borrower:

      (a)   shall, not later than October 31, 1991, prepare the
reforestation plan for 1.5 million hectares, and not later than
October 31, 1993, prepare the reforestation plan for the remaining
8.5 million hectares, together with related proposals for improved
incentives, financing and control mechanisms; such plans shall
include decision rules and criteria for efficient site selection and
a system of regular updating of such data;  and

      (b)   shall, thereafter, implement such plans, taking into
account the comments of the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall strengthen its Forestry Research Council
within its Ministry of Forestry.  The council shall meet at least
twice a year and within one month of a meeting, the minutes of its
meetings shall be made available to the Bank.

3.    In order to carry out the technical assistance for the
Project, the Borrower shall have signed the contracts by
December 31, 1990 for:

      (a)   those responsible for carrying out the inspection
services referred to in Part A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the consultants to assist with the forestry research
master plan referred to in Part C.1. of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;

      (c)   the consultants to assist with Part D of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and



      (d)   the highly qualified and experienced resident forestry
advisor referred to in Part E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

4.    The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a
mid-term evaluation of the Project, which shall be completed by
March 31, 1993. The evaluation report shall review the
implementation experience of the Project, including but not limited
to, cost-effectiveness, timeliness, sustainability, and expected
benefits and relevance of the Project, and shall, taking into
account the experience gained, include recommendations and detailed
plans for carrying out the remaining parts of the Project. A copy of
the report shall be furnished to the Bank for comments.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the



respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.