World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3403 MOR

               (Agriculture Sector Investment Loan)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated October 25, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3403 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 1991, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "MARA" means the Borrower’s ministry responsible for
agriculture (Ministere de l’Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire);

      (b)   "ORMVAs" means the Regional Agricultural Development
Authorities (Offices Regionaux de Mise en Valeur Agricoles)
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law (Dahir) No.
1-74-238 dated April 23, 1975 and Decrees (Decrets) No. 827-66, 828-
66, 829-66, 830-66, 831-66, 832-66 and 833-66, each dated October
22, 1966 and No. 2-70-157 dated October 8, 1970, as said Law and
Decrees may be amended from time to time; and

      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts A and B of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and (ii) for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by a beneficiary
under a grant made under Part C of the Project to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the investment
project included in said Part C in respect of which the withdrawal
from the Loan Account is requested.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a currency and a financial institution
acceptable to the Bank, a special deposit account, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.



      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the



objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry the Project out with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, technical, agricultural and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the goods,
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in



                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has employed, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, consultants to assist
the Borrower in the carrying out of the study included in Part A (1)
(b) of the Project.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministere des Finances
            Rabat, Morocco

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  MINISTERE FINANCES              32715 M
                  Rabat-Chella                    31936 M
                  Morocco

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                        By /s/ Mohammed Belkhayat



                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Pieter P. Bottelier
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works                8,000,000  )
                                          )
(2) Reforestation           3,000,000  )        85%
    activities                            )
    under Part B (4)                      )
    of the Project                        )

(3) Goods (excluding          12,000,000        100% of foreign
    pesticides)                                 expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(4) Consultants’               8,000,000        100%
    services and
    training
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Grants under             14,000,000         95% of amounts
    Part C of the                               paid by the
    Project                                     Borrower

(6) Unallocated               5,000,000
                             __________

         TOTAL               50,000,000
                             ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.



3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after July 1, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to (1) further develop the
Borrower’s agriculture sector and (2) strengthen the Borrower’s
institutional capabilities in order to enhance the efficiency and
productivity of said sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:  Policy Reforms

(1)   Carrying out of: (a) a program of measures to improve MARA’s
budgetary procedures so as to (i) facilitate the timely availability
to the Borrower’s agencies responsible for implementing MARA’s
investment program of budgetary resources in adequate amounts for
such implementation, and (ii) improve the efficient use of said
resources; and (b) a study to develop a program for the further
rationalization of said procedures.

(2)   Carrying out of a study to strengthen the organization of MARA
and the efficient utilization of its human resources.

(3)   Application of suitable policies and procedures for the
preparation of the Borrower’s agricultural investment programs,
designed to ensure the further rational development of the
agricultural sector.

(4)   Development and implementation of a strategy to further
strengthen the livestock and dairy sectors, including measures
designed to ensure the proper delivery of animal health care
services by veterinary doctors and artificial insemination services
by suitably qualified private persons and application of a rational
milk pricing policy.

(5)   Development and carrying out of a program to improve the
accounting of water charges owed by users of water delivered through
the Borrower’s large scale irrigation schemes, so as to facilitate
the recovery of said charges and implementation of a suitable
program for the recovery of said charges and the elimination of
arrears of water charges owed by said users.

Part B:  Investment Program

      Carrying out of the Borrower’s fiscal 1991 and 1992
agricultural investment programs, consisting of the following
activities selected in accordance with the policies and procedures
developed under Part A (3) of this Schedule:

(1)   Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of small- and
medium-scale irrigation schemes, carrying out of research and
testing of irrigation equipment to improve such schemes and
provision of equipment, materials and training to staff of MARA
required therefor.

(2)   Construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of large-scale
irrigation schemes and restructuring of the organization, and
strengthening of the operations, of the ORMVAs, including the
provision of management information systems, training to staff of
the ORMVAs, equipment and materials required therefor.

(3)   Development and carrying out of programs to improve crop



production and diversification, including: (a) land reclamation and
development, range development, infrastructure development, land
consolidation and restructuring and programs to promote improved
crop rotation practices, development of fruit tree plantations, crop
storage and agro-industrial activities; (b) a program to enhance the
efficient provision of agricultural extension services; and (c) a
program to improve pest control, seed and plant quality, and
agricultural inputs and outputs quality control; and provision of
equipment and materials required for said programs.

(4)   Carrying out of a program for the (a) development and
management of the Borrower’s forestry and other natural resources,
(b) protection of its watersheds from erosion and (c) strengthening
of the Borrower’s institutional capabilities and policies relating
thereto, including the provision of equipment and materials required
therefor.

(5)   Delivery of a suitable program of animal health services,
carrying out of an appropriate livestock genetic and nutrition
improvement program and implementation of a suitable livestock
marketing system; and provision of equipment, materials, veterinary
drugs, breeding stock and housing for MARA staff required therefor.

(6)   Development and carrying out of agricultural training and
research programs and development and utilization of agricultural
labor market information systems, including the provision of
facilities, equipment and materials required therefor.

(7)   Carrying out of a program to update the Borrower’s national
map and cadastre, including the provision of office facilities and
information systems required therefor and carrying out of
topographical surveys, all as required to facilitate the carrying
out of the Borrower’s land consolidation programs.

(8)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of MARA in the areas of sectoral planning and policy
development, including the construction of office facilities
required for the staff of MARA responsible for such planning and
policy development.

(9)   Carrying out of a study to evaluate the grant program referred
to in Part C of this Schedule.

Part C:  Agricultural Development Fund

      Carrying out of a program to provide grants to farmers and
farming enterprises, for specific investment projects, selected on
the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, designed to
improve farming techniques applied, and farm technology utilized, by
said farmers and enterprises.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

March 1, 1997                             910,000
September 1, 1997                         945,000
March 1, 1998                             985,000
September 1, 1998                       1,020,000
March 1, 1999                           1,060,000
September 1, 1999                       1,100,000
March 1, 2000                           1,145,000
September 1, 2000                       1,190,000
March 1, 2001                           1,235,000
September 1, 2001                       1,285,000



March 1, 2002                           1,330,000
September 1, 2002                       1,385,000
March 1, 2003                           1,435,000
September 1, 2003                       1,495,000
March 1, 2004                           1,550,000
September 1, 2004                       1,610,000
March 1, 2005                           1,675,000
September 1, 2005                       1,735,000
March 1, 2006                           1,805,000
September 1, 2006                       1,875,000
March 1, 2007                           1,945,000
September 1, 2007                       2,020,000
March 1, 2008                           2,100,000
September 1, 2008                       2,180,000
March 1, 2009                           2,265,000
September 1, 2009                       2,355,000
March 1, 2010                           2,445,000
September 1, 2010                       2,540,000
March 1, 2011                           2,635,000
September 1, 2011                       2,745,000
_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                Premium

                                    The interest rate
                                    (expressed as a
                                    percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan
                                    on the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:

Not more than three years               0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but               0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                 0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not              0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not              0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before               1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding



1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$400,000 or more each.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Works and reforestation activities estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $13,300,000, and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $400,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Veterinary drugs, regardless of the cost thereof, and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,700,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

3.    Goods of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank’s prior
approval, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of direct
negotiations with the suppliers thereof, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Small works, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,200,000, may, with the Bank’s prior approval, be
carried out under force account by the Borrower’s own forces.

5.    Goods and services included in Part C of the Project shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, and in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the first contract for works, regardless
of the cost thereof, the first contract for goods to be awarded in
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C. 1 of this
Section I, regardless of the cost thereof, each contract for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $800,000 or more, and each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.



      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project,
the Borrower shall take the following actions:

1.    The Borrower shall maintain with membership and resources and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   a Project coordinating committee to be responsible for
the overall coordination and supervision of the carrying out of the
Project; and

      (b)   a budget committee to be responsible for the monitoring
and evaluation of the implementation of MARA’s budget and for the
development of suitable measures to improve the efficient
implementation thereof.

2.    The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project in
accordance with an action plan agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.



2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.



6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.