World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3356-PH

                      (Rural Finance Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                   LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                        Dated July 11, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3356-PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LAND BANK OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement, including but not limited to Part C of the
Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "ALF" means the Agricultural Loan Fund established and
operating under Resolution No. 701 dated May 18, 1985 of the
Monetary Board of the Guarantor;

      (b)   "ARF" means the Agrarian Reform Fund established and
operating under the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Act of 1988;

      (c)   "CLF" means the Countryside Loan Fund established by the
Borrower;

      (d)   "Policy Manual" means the Policy Manual for the
Countryside Loan Fund, as may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank;

      (e)   "Participating Financial Institutions" means such
financial institutions as may be accredited by the Borrower in
accordance with the Policy Manual;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement(s)" means agreement(s) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Participating Financial
Institution(s) pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower to a Participating Financial Institution under
the provision of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (h)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Financial Institution out of the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan for a Sub-project; "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a
Sub-loan for a Sub-project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan which shall not exceed the sum of
$1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan;

      (i)   "Beneficiary" means any entity engaged in production,
investment and related services for the rural economy to whom a
Participating Financial Institution proposes to make or has made a
Sub-loan;

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (k)   "Charter" means the charter of the Borrower dated August
8, 1963, as amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (l)   "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower; and

      (m)   "Sub-project" means a project to be carried out by a
Beneficiary and financed under a Sub-loan.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to



the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made under a Sub-
loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for Part A of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997  or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding



      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified management
and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and the Statement
of Policy.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to the Participating Financial Institutions under separate
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered
into between the Borrower and each Participating Financial
Institution as such agreements may be amended from time to time with
the concurrence of the Bank, for the purpose of onlending the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to Sub-projects in accordance with
the provisions hereof. Unless the Bank otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not in any way on-lend the proceeds of the Loan to Sub-
projects directly.

      (b)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Guarantor, the Bank, and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Borrower.



      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                  this Agreement, its accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and records and
                  accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal
                  year audited in accordance with sound auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning the said records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

      Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain the following ratios: (i) risk assets to
net equity of not more than 7 to 1; and (ii) liquid assets to short
term deposit of not less than 125%.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "risk assets" means total assets
                  excluding cash, short term deposits in banks,
                  investment in government securities and fixed
                  assets used in the course of the Borrower’s
                  operations.



           (ii)   The term "equity" means the sum of total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.

          (iii)   The term "Liquid Assets" means cash, short term
                  deposits in banks, 80% of loans maturing within
                  one year, and investment in government securities
                  up to one year.

      Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that ARF arrears to the Borrower shall not
exceed 20% of the Borrower’s equity or Peso 1 billion whichever is
lower.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or the financial condition of the
Borrower or its ability to carry out Part A of the Project or to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Policy Manual, as agreed with the Bank, has
been adopted and put into effect.

      (b)   that the Central Bank, the Philippine Deposit Insurance
Corporation, and the Borrower shall have adopted a capitalization
program for the rural banks, satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   that the Central Bank shall have issued criteria and
regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, concerning: (i) the opening
of new bank branches; (ii) the establishment of new banks servicing
the rural areas; (iii) mergers of banks in rural areas; and (iv)
single ownership restrictions.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.



            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For the Borrower:

            Land Bank of the Philippines
            317-319 Sen. Gil J. Puyat Avenue
            Makati, Metro Manila
            Republic of the Philippines

            Fax:                              Telex:

                  (063-2) 817 2619              22679 LBP PH
                                                45443 LBP PH
                                                64045 LBP PH

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                  LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                  By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    To be Financed

(1)   Sub-loans under         50,000,000        100% of Sub-loans
      Part A (1) of                             until $30,000,000
      the Project                               have been dis-
                                                bursed, and 55%
                                                thereafter

(2)   Sub-loans under        100,000,000        75% of Sub-loans
      Part A (2) of                             disbursed.
      the Project

                             ___________
      TOTAL                  150,000,000



                             ===========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000, may be made on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
November 1, 1990.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are; (i) to assist in financing
such productive facilities and resources in the Philippines as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country,
and (ii) to enhance the policy framework governing the rural
financial sector.

     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Guarantor, the Bank, and the Borrower
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Lending Program to be carried out by the Borrower

     Provision of Sub-loans through Participating Financial
Institutions for:

     (1)    Short-term rural production credit; and

     (2)    Medium- and long-term credit for agricultural and other
            viable rural investments, including the Cooperatives’
            Experimental Pilot Plan.

Part B:     Training to be carried out by the Borrower

     (1)    Training of Project related staff within the Borrower
            and the Participating Financial Institutions; and

     (2)    Training of selected cooperative staff and management.

Part C:     Policy and Institutional Development

     (1)    Further liberalization of banking policies in rural
            areas.

     (2)    Introduction of a capitalization program for rural
            banks.

     (3)    Strengthening of rural insurance and guarantee funds.

    (4)    Studies to enhance the rural credit delivery and funds
            mobilization system.

                               * * *

     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1997                             2,735,000
September 15, 1997                         2,840,000
March 15, 1998                             2,950,000
September 15, 1998                         3,065,000
March 15, 1999                             3,185,000



September 15, 1999                         3,305,000
March 15, 2000                             3,435,000
September 15, 2000                         3,565,000
March 15, 2001                             3,705,000
September 15, 2001                         3,850,000
March 15, 2002                             3,995,000
September 15, 2002                         4,150,000
March 15, 2003                             4,310,000
September 15, 2003                         4,480,000
March 15, 2004                             4,650,000
September 15, 2004                         4,830,000
March 15, 2005                             5,020,000
September 15, 2005                         5,210,000
March 15, 2006                             5,415,000
September 15, 2006                         5,625,000
March 15, 2007                             5,840,000
September 15, 2007                         6,065,000
March 15, 2008                             6,300,000
September 15, 2008                         6,545,000
March 15, 2009                             6,795,000
September 15, 2009                         7,060,000
March 15, 2010                             7,330,000
September 15, 2010                         7,615,000
March 15, 2011                             7,910,000
September 15, 2011                         8,220,000

_________________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                        Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
             Modifications of the General Conditions



      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 5 (c) of
      Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
      of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
      or requests under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph;
      or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests. The
      Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, ter-
      minate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications
      or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as
      the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
      Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
      of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                           SCHEDULE 5

                   Procedures for and Terms and
                      Conditions of Sub-loans

(1)   General

      (a)   The Borrower shall finance Sub-loans, in local currency,
utilizing the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Categories (1)
and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, on the basis of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
made between the Borrower and each Participating Financial
Institution in accordance with the Policy Manual.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Participating Financial Institution in such manner as: (i) to
achieve the purposes of the Project; (ii) to protect the interests
of the Guarantor, the Bank, and the Borrower; and (iii) to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall cause each Participating Financial
Institution: (i) to carry on its obligations under the Policy Manual
and the arrangements referred to in paragraph (b) hereof; (ii) to
carry out its operations and to conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound business practices, under the supervision of experienced
and competent management, and to employ qualified personnel in
adequate numbers; and (iii) to maintain, and to furnish to the Bank
upon request, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.

(2)   Eligibility

      (a)   Financial Institutions shall be accredited to parti-
cipate in the Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank, as outlined in the Policy Manual.

      (b)   The Borrower shall maintain, and furnish to the Bank
upon request, records with evidence of the eligibility of each
Participating Financial Institution to participate in the Project.



      (c)   The Borrower shall by October 1, 1991 furnish to the
Bank for review, an updated list of Participating Financial
Institutions and a plan to conduct institutional appraisal of
financial institutions expected to participate in the Project, and
shall thereafter by each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1
furnish to the Bank an update of such list and plan.

(3)   Principal Terms and Conditions

      (a)   Beneficiaries shall be selected in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, as outlined in the Policy Manual.

      (b)   Subsidiary Loans and Sub-loans shall be on terms and
conditions, as outlined in the Policy Manual.

      (c)   Sub-loans of $1,000,000 equivalent or more shall be made
after approval of the Bank.

      (d)   Relending interest rates on Subsidiary Loans, either
fixed or floating, shall be determined by negotiation between the
Borrower and the Participating Financial Institution.

      (e)   The Borrower shall periodically review the interest
rates referred to hereinabove and make adjustments thereon in
accordance with standards, as outlined in the Policy Manual.

      (f)   Repayments of Subsidiary Loan principal shall be
deposited in ALF/CLF to provide rural credit in accordance with the
Policy Manual.

      (g)   The Borrower shall retain in ALF/CLF, all profits from
ALF/CLF operations for purposes, and in accordance with
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank.

      (h)   Sub-projects shall be required to observe and conform
with relevant environmental laws, rules and regulations in force in
the Republic of the Philippines.

(4)   Procurement

      (a)   Goods and works under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more shall be procured under procedures
for international competitive bidding satisfactory to the Bank.
However, procedures for limited international bidding and direct
contracting may be allowed for contracts covering the procurement of
goods in the following cases: (i) in modernization or expansion
projects, standardized equipment or proprietary parts that are
needed for compatibility with existing equipment; (ii) machinery
that is available only from limited number of suppliers worldwide;
and (iii) other technical reasons acceptable to the Bank.  All
contracts under this paragraph shall require prior approval by the
Bank.

      (b)   Goods, services and works, other than those set out in
paragraph (a) above, shall be purchased at a reasonable price
following the established commercial procedures, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as: (i) in the case of goods,
timely delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor;
(ii) in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them; and (iii) in the case of works, the
technical quality and the competitive cost therefor.

(5)   Disbursement Eligibility

      (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of



amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the
amount of the Loan to be used for the Sub-project; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain; (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and
the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before August 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.



All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Part A of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Part A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
for Part A of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                      Implementation Program

      The Borrower shall ensure that:



1.    No retailing of ALF or CLF funds is carried out through itself
except for the Cooperative Experimental Pilot Plan.

2.    CLF funds which are provided initially for short term credit
shall be subsequently recycled to medium and long term sub-loans.

3.    CLF is operated on commercial basis and its net profits shall
be retained within CLF.

4.    The Policy Manual, as agreed with the Bank, is issued, and
shall not be amended without the prior concurrence of the Bank.