World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3313 HU

               (Human Resources Development Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 29, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3313 HU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Special Account" means the
account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Bank of Hungary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after



                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. The President of the National Bank of Hungary,
or such other person or persons as said President shall designate in
writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and human resources development
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and (ii) employ consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.



                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses



      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the First Deputy President or the General Manager of the
National Bank of Hungary is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International
              Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   BANKO                     227267 SMAFU-H,
                   Budapest                  225755 BANKO-H or
                                             227028 BANKO-H

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY

                         By /s/ Imre Tarafas
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:



                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods:                                      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
    (a)  for Part A (2)       18,500,000        100% of local
         of the Project                         expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
    (b)  for the other        79,300,000        cost)
         Parts of the
         Project

(2) Consultants’              12,500,000        100%
    services

(3) Fellowships and           21,000,000        100% of foreign
    research grants                             expenditures

(4) Unallocated               18,700,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               150,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1990; and

      (b)   expenditures for Part A (2) of the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to Category (1) (a) except after the Bank shall have communicated to
the Borrower its acceptance of evidence that: (i) the budget of the
national training council, referred to in Part A (2) of the Project,
for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1991, has been adopted; and
(ii) operational guidelines for the regional training boards
referred to in Part A (2) of the Project have been adopted and at
least four of said regional training boards have been established
and staffed, and the proposed programs and budgets of said regional
training boards for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1991 have
been adopted.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in the carrying
out of programs further to develop the Borrower’s human resources
base as will contribute to improved productivity and technological
competitiveness of its economy and to alleviation of the adverse
employment impact of the restructuring thereof.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:



Part A:     Employment and Labor Training

      Development and implementation of programs to:

      (1)   upgrade and expand the labor market information systems
and employment assistance services;

      (2)   restructure the specialized occupational training
services for adults, including the maintenance of a national
training council and the establishment of regional training boards
which will develop and operate regional labor development centers
with effective linkages to regional economies and labor markets; and

      (3)   reform the vocational secondary schools system,
including the development and operation of model vocational
secondary schools combining training in broad clusters of occupa-
tional skills with general education.

Part B:     Higher Education and Research

      Development and implementation of programs to:

      (1)   upgrade and expand higher education, including the
establishment of a higher education development fund to provide
competitively based grant funding to universities to carry out
schemes to promote greater collaboration and resource sharing among
universities, develop interdisciplinary educational programs and
integrate research and teaching functions through expanded col-
laboration among universities and research institutes, and improve
the recovery of costs of the provision of higher education;

      (2)   develop a framework for the financing, through the
higher education development fund referred to under subpart (1)
hereof, of university programs for foreign language training, and
carry out practically oriented foreign language training; and

      (3)   increase and upgrade human resources available for
science and technology research and restructure and expand the
science and technology research system, including the establishment
of an autonomous foundation for basic sciences to provide competi-
tively based grant funding (a) to upgrade and expand the scientific
instrument centers and the scientific research and development
information infrastructure network used by scientific researchers,
and (b) to support research by qualified young scientists.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      On each June 15
          and December 15

      beginning December 15, 1996
      through June 15, 2006                       7,500,000

____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the



premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable
                                  to the Loan on the day of prepay-
                                  ment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                         0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                         0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                           0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                    0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years                          1.00
      before maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods, including technical licenses, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $30,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Goods, including technical licenses, which the Bank agrees (a)
are of proprietary nature, (b) the timely supply thereof is critical
for efficient Project execution, or (c) need to be compatible with
other installed equipment, may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:



      (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to Consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

A.    Part A of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out Parts A (1) and A (3) of the Project through
its Ministry of Labor, with the assistance of the Borrower’s Central
Statistical Office and Ministry of Culture and Education, respec-
tively, and to that end shall ensure that said Ministry is at all
times provided with staffing and other resources so as to enable
said Ministry properly to carry out its responsibilities under the
Project; and

      (b)   monitor the labor market at least once every quarter of
each fiscal year utilizing the market information systems referred
to in Part A (1) of the Project.

2.    In order to ensure the proper operation of the national
training council and the regional training boards referred to in
Part A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to ensure the maintenance by said council and boards of
operational guidelines and procedures pursuant to which the said
council shall:

      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments, through the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, not later than
November 30 of each fiscal year, its proposed budget and the
proposed programs of activities of said boards for the following
fiscal year; and



      (b)   thereafter, ensure the finalization of said budget and
programs taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.

B.    Part B of the Project

1.    In order to achieve the objectives of Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure the preparation, on the basis of guide-
lines satisfactory to the Bank, and submission, by Decem-
ber 31, 1991, to the Borrower’s Parliament for enactment of draft
laws providing for: (a) the autonomy of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences; (b) the autonomy and normative financing of universities
and colleges; and (c) the introduction of a suitable system for the
training of scientists and the awarding of scientific degrees.

2.    The Borrower shall ensure that all grants provided by the
higher education development fund referred to in Parts B (1) and B
(2) of the Project and the grants provided by the autonomous
foundation for basic sciences referred to in Part B (3) of the
Project shall be awarded on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank.

3.    The Borrower shall: (a) prepare under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments, by June 30, 1992, a feasibility study for improving the
recovery of costs of the provision of higher education, together
with the recommendations of the Borrower based thereon, and (b)
thereafter, take all measures required on its part to ensure that
the improvement of such recovery of costs under Part B (1) of the
Project shall be carried out on the basis of said recommendations,
taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.

C.    Review of Project Execution

      The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comments, in November 1993, a report integrating
available data on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of such report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the proper carrying
out of the Project during the period following such date; and (b)
thereafter, take all measures required on its part to ensure the
proper carrying out of the Project during such period, taking into
consideration the Bank’s comments thereon.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:



      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or



the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.