World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3320 CY

                (Industrial Restructuring Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 20, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3320 CY

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Bank (defined
below) pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to a Participation Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower to a Participating Bank pursuant to a Par-
ticipation Agreement;

      (c)   "CBC" means the Central Bank of Cyprus established and
operating pursuant to the Central Bank of Cyprus Laws 48 of 1963 and
10 of 1979;

      (d)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of policy
adopted by the Borrower on March 21, 1991;

      (e)   "CDB" means the Cyprus Development Bank, a limited
company registered in 1963 under the Companies Law of Cyprus,
CAP 113;

      (f)   "Participating Bank" means CDB and any other banking
institution which satisfies the conditions set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement and which shall have entered into a Participation
Agreement;

      (g)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by a Participating Bank to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of a
Subsidiary Loan;

      (h)   "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

      (i)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (j)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (k)   "CYS" means Cyprus Organization for Standards and
Control of Quality of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry;

      (l)   "Consultants Clearing House or CCH" means the consulting
clearing house to be established as an independent legal entity;

      (m)   "CCH Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CCH pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the CCH Administration
Agreement;

      (n)   "Environmental Research and Training Institute or ERTI"
means the environmental research and training institute to be
established within CDB;

      (o)   "CBD-ERTI Administration Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and CDB pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the CDB-ERTI



Administration Agreement;

      (p)   "Competitive Enhancement Fund" means the fund to be
administered by CCH for the purposes of financing the studies under
Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project; and

      (q)   "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and
"Special Accounts" mean such accounts, collectively.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in CBC, to
be designated Special Account A, and, for the purposes of Part C of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in CBC,
to be designated Special Account B, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
Special Account A and Special Account B shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after



                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts A, B (through
the Participating Banks) and C.4 through C.7 of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and technical practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) shall cause
(A) CCH to carry out Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project and to
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the CCH Administration
Agreement, all the obligations of CCH therein set forth, and (B) CDB
to carry out Part C.8 of the Project and to perform, in accordance
with the provisions of the CDB-ERTI Administration Agreement, all
the obligations of CDB therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate, to enable
CCH and CDB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.

      (b)   For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Category (1) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement to the Participating Banks under participation agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each Participating Bank,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank, which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in



Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   For the purposes of carrying out Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3
of the Project, the Borrower shall make available the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) (a) in the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to
CCH under an administration agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and CCH under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, the establishment and
operation of the Competitiveness Enhancement Fund.

      (d)   For the purposes of carrying out Part C.8 of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category (2) (c) in the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to CDB under an
administration agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
CDB under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank.

      (e)   The Borrower shall: (i) exercise its rights under the
Participation Agreements, the CCH Administration Agreement and the
CDB-ERTI Administration Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Participation Agreements or the CCH Administration Agreement or the
CDB-ERTI Administration Agreement or any provision thereof; and (ii)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and
supervise the carrying out by the Participating Banks of their
obligations under the respective Participation Agreement, the
carrying out by CCH of its obligations under the CCH Administration
Agreement and the carrying out by CDB-ERTI of its obligations under
the CDB-ERTI Administration Agreement, all in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower, CCH and CDB in
carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower, CCH and CDB shall
employ management, financial and environmental consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1991 in
consultation with the Bank adopt an action plan with respect to the
following:

      (a)   the development of prudential regulations for coopera-
tive credit societies;

      (b)   the strengthening of the supervisory responsibilities of
the Borrower for the cooperative credit societies; and

      (c)   the study and implementation of mechanisms to improve
integration of the network of cooperative credit societies.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause: (a) CDB, by
October 15, 1991, to prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and
comment a plan on the restructuring of CDB; and

      (b)   by January 1, 1992, taking into consideration the
comments of the Bank, adopt and put into effect the plan on
restructuring of CDB.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, in accordance with the
Statement of Policy and the Customs Union Agreement between the
Borrower and the European Community, take all measures necessary
for: (a) the elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports;
(b) the termination of the import licensing system; and (c) the
minimization of differences in tariff rates across product groups.



      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1991, in
consultation with the Bank, adopt an action plan, including a
timetable, to strengthen the competitive enhancement and environ-
mental appraisal capabilities of enterprises in Cyprus.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1992, in
consultation with the Bank, carry out a study, including the
preparation of an action plan and a timetable, on strengthening
quality control standards and accreditation and testing facilities
in Cyprus.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that the staff of the
Participating Banks obtain training in project appraisal and
supervision in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank and the provisions of their respective Participation
Agreements.

      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause CDB: (a) by June 30,
1992, to carry out a study, including the preparation of an action
plan, on the prospects for developing a domestic capital market; and
(b) promptly thereafter, to consult with the Bank on the results and
recommendations of such study.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of CCH, CDB and the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account for the Project were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Accounts
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of



                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Statement of Policy shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement;

      (b)   CCH shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the CCH Administration Agreement so as to affect materially
and adversely the execution of the Project; and

      (c)   CDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the CDB-ERTI Administration Agreement so as to affect
materially and adversely the execution of the Project.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   a Participation Agreement between the Borrower and one
Participating Bank has been executed on behalf of the Bank and said
Participating Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement; and

      (b)   the CCH Administration Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CCH pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Participation Agreement between the Borrower
and a Participating Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by said
Participating Bank and is legally binding upon said Participating
Bank in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   the CCH Administration Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by CCH and is legally binding upon CCH in
accordance with its terms.a

     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII



             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Nicosia
            Cyprus

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINFINANCE                3399
                   Nicosia

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           64145 (WUI),
                                             197688 (TRT) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS

                         By /s/ Michael Sherifis
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                              SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures



     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods and                 25,000,000        100% of foreign
    services                                    expenditures and
    for Part B                                  50% of local
    of the Project                              expenditures

(2) Consultants’                                100%
    services,
    training and
    office equipment:

    (a)  Parts C.1, C.2        2,500,000
         and C.3 of the
         Project

    (b)  Parts C.4               600,000
         through C.7 of
         the Project

    (c)  Part C.8                300,000
         of the
         Project

(3) Unallocated                1,600,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                30,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term:

      (a)   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
by a Participating Bank under a Sub-loan pursuant to Part B of the
Project unless the Participating Bank has been approved by the Bank
and the Borrower and the Participation Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the respective Participating Bank
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and (c) expenditures
by CDB pursuant to Part C.8 of the Project unless the CDB-ERTI
Administration Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and CDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist the Borrower
in restructuring and modernizing its industrial sector in view of a
gradual integration into the European Community; (b) assist in the
adjustments needed to meet new environmental standards; and (c)
support selected reforms needed in the financial sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Policy Program

      The carrying out by the Borrower of a program to:

      1.    restructure and modernize the industrial sector, within



            the context of appropriate environmental practices and
            procedures;

      2.    strengthen the regulatory and supervisory framework of
            financial institutions, particularly cooperative credit
            societies;

      3.    increase the financial autonomy of CDB and expand its
            lending and investment activities; and

      4.    liberalize the interest rate and exchange control
            policies.

Part B:     Credit

      The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by Par-
ticipating Banks, of Investment Projects to:

      1.    reorganize and modernize industrial enterprises;

      2.    modernize the output structure of industrial enter-
            prises;

      3.    increase the efficient use by industrial enterprises of
            productive facilities; and

      4.    enable industrial enterprises to adapt their operations
            to the environmental requirements of the Borrower.

Part C:     Technical Assistance

      1.    The carrying out of studies for industrial enterprises
            on the assessment of and methods for enhancing their
            competitive positions in connection with restructuring
            programs and the provision of related training.

      2.    The carrying out of environmental studies for industrial
            enterprises in connection with restructuring programs
            and the provision of related training.

      3.    The carrying out of studies to strengthen the product
            quality control facilities of CYS.

      4.    The carrying out of a program to strengthen the coopera-
            tive credit society system and to restructure CDB.

      5.    Enhancement of the audit, control and enforcement
            capacity of the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social
            Insurance in the area of industrial pollution.

      6.    The carrying out of a study, including the preparation
            of an action program, on the prospects for developing a
            domestic capital market.

      7.    Provision of training to the staff of the Participating
            Banks in project appraisal and supervision.

      8.    Strengthening of the environmental assessment capabili-
            ties in Cyprus, including the development of the
            domestic consulting industry in the area of environ-
            mental analysis, assessment and training.

                          *      *      *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*



On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning January 15, 1997
      through   July 15, 2006                   1,500,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

           Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks

1.    Type of Institution

      Participating Banks shall be commercial banks, merchant banks,
development finance institutions, and sectoral credit institutions.

2.    Eligibility Criteria

      Participating Banks shall be required to meet and maintain the
following requirements of the CBC pertaining to:

      (a)   liquidity and reserve requirements;

      (b)   provisions for bad and doubtful accounts; and

      (c)   capital adequacy ratio requirements.

3.    Financial Performance and Solvency

      Participating Banks shall be required to meet the following
financial performance and solvency requirements:

      (a)   adequate net income in real terms to provide a positive
            return on equity, with sufficient provisions for losses,



            satisfactory to the Bank, and maintenance of minimum
            capital of 8% of risk-adjusted assets; and

      (b)   a loan collection rate, satisfactory to the Bank,
            adequate to preserve the Participating Bank’s capital.

4.    Audit

      An audit of financial statements (balance sheets and income
statement) for the institution’s latest fiscal year, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, shall be a condition
for eligibility.

      When an institution is not deemed eligible due to its
financial situation, its participation as a Participating Bank shall
be conditioned on the adoption by said institution of a recovery
program, detailed in an institutional development plan satisfactory
to the Bank. Said plan shall outline remedial measures, such as
training, which shall enable the institution to satisfactorily meet
the eligibility criteria within a period of not more than three
years. Time-bound, monitorable performance criteria shall be set in
accordance with said program. The institution’s continued eligibi-
lity to make Sub-loans will depend on its meeting said criteria.

5.    Statement of Lending Policies and Procedures

      Participating Banks shall have lending policies and procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. The provisions of such lending
policies and procedures may not be amended, abrogated or waived
without the prior approval of the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 5

               Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                     Participation Agreements

      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the principal terms
and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the
purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan to be made
available to a Participating Bank under its respective Participation
Agreement shall be:

      (a)   the equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of the
Sub-loans which are financed out of the proceeds of said Subsidiary
Loan; and

      (b)   denominated in the currency of the Sub-loans which are
financed out of the proceeds of said Subsidiary Loan.

2.    Each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time interest, during
each six-month period commencing January 1 and July 1 of each
calendar year, at a rate equivalent to LIBOR, as shall be calculated
by the Borrower on the basis of the methodology set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule, plus a margin of not more than one percent
(1%) to cover its costs. Said margin shall be reviewed from time to
time by the Bank and the Borrower and adjusted, as necessary, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.

3.    Each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount
thereof not withdrawn and outstanding from time to time a commitment
fee at a rate equivalent to the rate set forth in Section 2.04 of
this Agreement.

4.    Each Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in accordance with an
amortization schedule which conforms in relevant part substantially
to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the
Sub-loans which are financed out of the proceeds of said Subsidiary
Loan.



5.    The right of the Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds
of a Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) suspended upon failure by such
Participating Bank to (i) meet any of the requirements set forth in
paragraphs 2, 3 or 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) obtain
the prior concurrence of the Bank, pursuant to paragraph 5 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to amend, waive and abrogate the
Participating Bank’s lending policies and procedures, (iii) perform
any of its obligations under a Participation Agreement; and (b)
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to
paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of sixty days.

6.    The Participating Bank shall make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank and the Borrower, for training its staff in project
appraisal and supervision.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

                Definition and Calculation of LIBOR

      LIBOR, or London interbank offered rate, for each of the six-
month periods specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement shall be the rate for six month deposits in the currency
of the principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan which appears on the
Reuters Screen ISDA Page, or any successor thereto, as at 11:00
a.m., London time, on the day that is two London Business Days prior
to the commencement of each of the specified periods. If, for any
reason, the said Reuters Screen ISDA Page, or any successor thereto,
is not available to the Borrower, or no such rate for such currency
appears on the said Reuters Screen ISDA Page, LIBOR shall be
determined for each of the specified periods pursuant to another
generally recognized method of calculation of LIBOR acceptable to
the Bank.

      For the purpose hereof:

            (i)    "Reuters Screen ISDA Page" means the display
                   designated as page "ISDA" on the Reuter Monitor
                   Money Rates Service (or such other page as may
                   replace the ISDA Page on that service for the
                   purpose of displaying London interbank offered
                   rates for the Deutsche mark, Japanese yen,
                   sterling, Swiss franc and U.S. dollar); and

           (ii)    "London Business Day" means any day on which
                   banks are not required or authorized by law to
                   close in London.

                           SCHEDULE 6

          Eligibility Criteria of Investment Enterprises
               and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

1.    The amount of any Sub-loan shall not exceed $2,000,000
equivalent.

2.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be: (a) denomi-
nated in the currency (Deutsche mark, Japanese yen, sterling, Swiss
franc or U.S. dollar) agreed to by the Participating Bank and the
Investment Enterprise; and (b) the equivalent in such currency
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) for Investment
Projects.

3.    The Sub-loan shall be charged on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time interest at a rate
determined in accordance with the lending policies and procedures of
the Participating Bank.



4.    The Sub-loan shall be made by a Participating Bank for capital
investments for a period not exceeding twelve years, including a
grace period of three years, and for working capital for a period
not exceeding four years, including a grace period of one year. The
amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan shall not extend
beyond the latest repayment date of the Loan set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.

5.    The Sub-loan shall be made only to an Investment Enterprise
which shall have:

      (a)   established, to the satisfaction of the Participating
Bank making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank, that: (i) it is creditworthy; (ii) its projected cash
generation or equity increases shall be sufficient to enable it to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the Investment Project;
(iii) it is in a position to continue to maintain a debt to equity
ratio of not more than 3:1, a debt service coverage of not less than
1.4, and a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not
less than 1.2; and (iv) it shall provide 20% of the costs required
for the Investment Project in the form of equity; and

     (b)    established that: (i) for an Investment Project with
costs in excess of $750,000 equivalent, that the Investment Project
shall have a financial rate of return of at least 12% and an
economic rate of return of at least 12% (both adjusted for inflation
on the basis of the Retail Price Index in Cyprus), as shall be
calculated to the satisfaction of the Bank and the Participating
Bank on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) for an Investment
Project with costs of the equivalent of $750,000 or less, that the
Investment Project shall be economically viable to the satisfaction
of the Bank and the Participating Bank, as determined on the basis
of cost-benefit ratio criteria.

6.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the application and information required under
paragraph 8 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the request and information required under paragraph
8 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For
the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a
Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of
$750,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

7.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 6 (b) of this
Schedule, the first three proposed Sub-loans for Investment Projects
of each Participating Bank shall be furnished to the Bank for review
and approval.

8.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval, the Participating Bank shall furnish
to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Investment Project, including an environmental
appraisal of the Investment Enterprise and an environmental impact
of the Investment Project, both prepared in accordance with
environmental guidelines satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
by independent environmental auditors acceptable to the Bank, and a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the



proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan;
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.

      (b)   Each request by the Participating Bank for authorization
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1998.

9.    The Participating Bank shall:

      (a)   open and thereafter maintain a separate account for the
Sub-loans on its books in accordance with its normal financial
practices and on conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank; and

      (b)   upon receipt of each such payment or repayments under
each Sub-loan, credit the same to the said separate account. Allamounts to be so 
credited to the said separate account shall be
utilized by the Participating Bank, to the extent they are not yet
required to meet the Participating Bank’s payment obligations to the
Borrower under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, exclusively to finance
projects similar to Investment Projects.

10.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating
Bank shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enter-
prise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the
right to:

      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practices; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project;



      (f)   require that the Investment Enterprise:

            (i)    maintain records and accounts adequate to re-
                   flect in accordance with consistently maintained
                   sound accounting practices its operations and
                   financial conditions;

            (ii)   have its financial statements (balance sheets,
                   income statements and cash flow statements) for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank and the Borrower;

          (iii)    furnish to the Participating Bank, for forward-
                   ing to the Borrower as may be requested by the
                   Bank or the Borrower, as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audit-
                   ed, and the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Bank or the Borrower shall have reasonably
                   requested;

            (iv)   furnish to the Participating Bank, for forward-
                   ing to the Borrower as may be requested by the
                   Bank, such other information concerning said
                   accounts, financial statements and records, as
                   well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall
                   from time to time reasonably request; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprises to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprises to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Participating Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of
Special Account A, Category (1) and, in the case of Special Account
B, Category (2), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in the case of
Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 and, in the
case of Special Account B, an amount equivalent to $250,000, to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the respective
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Autho-
rized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a



deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into Special Account A or Special Account B:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for the respective part of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the respective part of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for the
respective Special Account.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
for the respective part of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of Special Account A or Special Account B: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so



eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the respective Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective
Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.