World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3315 KO

              (Third Technology Advancement Project)

                              between

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                         Date June 3, 1991

                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3315 KO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "KIST" means the Korea Institute of Science and
Technology;

      (b)   "KBSC" means the Korea Basic Science Center;

      (c)   "NIRI" means the National Industrial Research Institute;

      (d)   "KIST Special Account", "KBSC Special Account", and
"NIRI Special Account" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and

      (e)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
sub-paragraph (d) above, collectively.

                             ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of respective
Parts A, B and C of the Project, open and maintain in dollars
special deposit accounts in the Korea Exchange Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with    the
respective provisions of Schedules 5, 6 and 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending



                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
KIST, KBSC and NIRI with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause KIST, KBSC and NIRI
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices their operations and financial



condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall cause KIST, KBSC and NIRI to:

            (i)   have their records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and the records
                  and accounts for their respective Special Ac-
                  counts for each financial year audited, in accor-
                  dance with appropriate auditing principles con-
                  sistently applied, by independent auditors ac-
                  ceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of their
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
                  tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning such records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause KIST, KBSC and NIRI to:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the financial
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditures
                  submitted during such financial year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                          Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause KIST, KBSC and NIRI to
carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and educational practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of



KIST, KBSC and NIRI, or for the suspension of their operations.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea

            Cable address:                Telex:

                MOF                          K23243
                Kwachon, Korea

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  82987 (FTCC)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                            197688 (TRT) or
                                             64145 (WUI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                  By /s/ Sohn Myung-Hyun
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                  By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated             % of
                         (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category         Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed

Part A: KIST

(1)   Equipment and       13,500,000         100% of foreign
      materials                              expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost)
                                             and 65% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             for other items
                                             procured locally

(2)   Unallocated          1,500,000

                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated             % of
                         (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category         Dollar Equivalent     to be Financed

Part B: KBSC

(3)   Equipment and       13,500,000         100% of foreign
      materials                              expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost)
                                             and 65% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             for other items
                                             procured locally

(4)   Unallocated          1,500,000

Part C: NIRI

(5)   Equipment and       30,000,000         100% of foreign
      materials                              expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory cost)
                                             and 65% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             for other items
                                             procured locally
                          __________

           TOTAL          60,000,000
                          ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:



      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to reinforce the Borrower’s
priority for technology-intensive industrial development by
strengthening industrial research and development and basic research
capacity, and enhancing the application of industrial standards to
raise the quality of products.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:

Part A:     KIST

      The carrying out of a program by KIST to improve the quality
of its research programs to enhance its ability to assist industry
in developing advanced technologies through acquisition of special-
ized equipment and consumable materials.

Part B:     KBSC

      The carrying out of a program by KBSC to improve opportunities
for joint research activities in the basic sciences through
strengthening common research facility at KBSC through acquisition
of specialized equipment and consumable materials, and construction
of associated civil works.

Part C:     NIRI

      The carrying out of a program by NIRI to enhance the develop-
ment and application of industrial standards through acquisition of
specialized equipment and consumable materials, and construction of
civil works.

                     *     *     *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

     beginning September 15, 1996
     through   March 15, 2006               3,000,000

_______________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.



                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                  Premium

                                  The interest rate (ex-
                                  pressed as a percentage
                                  per annum) applicable to
                                  the balance outstanding
                                  on the Loan on the day
                                  of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                  0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not               0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Korea may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications,
other bidding and draft contract documents for the supply of goods.



      (b)   The Borrower shall retain, for inspection by the Bank,
a copy of each contract awarded, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                       KIST Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the KIST Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the KIST Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the KIST Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
KIST Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the KIST Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the KIST Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                  for deposits into the KIST Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the KIST
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  made out of the KIST Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
                  tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.



4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the KIST Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the KIST Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for Part A of the Project, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Part A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
for Part A of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
KIST Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the KIST Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the KIST Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the KIST Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the KIST Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the KIST Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                       KBSC Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (3) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in



respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the KBSC Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the KBSC Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the KBSC Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
KBSC Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the KBSC Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the KBSC Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                  for deposits into the KBSC Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the KBSC
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  made out of the KBSC Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
                  tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the KBSC Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the KBSC Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for Part B of the Project, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Part B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.



Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
for Part B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
KBSC Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the KBSC Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the KBSC Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the KBSC Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the KBSC Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the KBSC Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                       NIRI Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (5) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the NIRI Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the NIRI Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the NIRI Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
NIRI Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the



Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the NIRI Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the NIRI Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                  for deposits into the NIRI Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the NIRI
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  made out of the NIRI Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
                  tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the NIRI Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the NIRI Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for Part C of the Project, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
Part C of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category
for Part C of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
NIRI Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the NIRI Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the NIRI Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the NIRI Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case



may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the NIRI Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the NIRI Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.