World Bank Document


                                                     CONFORMED COPY

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3374 CS

                      Loan Assumption Agreement

                    (Structural Adjustment Loan)

                               between

                           CZECH REPUBLIC

                                 and

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT

                     Dated as of January 1, 1993

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3374 CS

                      LOAN ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated as of January 1, 1993, between CZECH REPUBLIC
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank received a letter, dated June 6, 1991,
from the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic (the CSFR) describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the CSFR’s economy (the Program), declaring
the CSFR’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;

      (B)   by a loan agreement (the Loan Agreement), dated July 31,
1991, between the Bank and the CSFR, the Bank agreed to support the
Program by extending to the CSFR a loan (the Loan) in three tranches
in various currencies aggregating the equivalent of four hundred
fifty million dollars ($450,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement;

      (C)   by a letter to the Bank, dated December 15, 1992, the
Czech Republic confirmed that, in the event the CSFR separated into

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



two states, the Czech Republic would service, as borrower, two-
thirds of the principal, interest and other charges of the Loan;

      (D)   by a letter to the Bank, dated November 24, 1992, the
Slovak Republic confirmed that, in the event the CSFR separated into
two states, the Slovak Republic would service, as borrower, one-
third of the principal, interest and other charges of the Loan;

      (E)   the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic have agreed
to assume all other obligations of the CSFR as provided in the Loan
Agreement;

      (F)   the CSFR ceased to exist on December 31, 1992 and was
succeeded on January 1, 1993, by the Czech Republic and the Slovak
Republic as independent and sovereign states; and

      (G)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
decided to release the third tranche of the Loan in the amount of
the equivalent of one hundred twenty-five million dollars
($125,000,000) in continued support of the Program;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                Assumption of Part of the Obligations
                      under the Loan Agreement

      Section 1.01. The Czech Republic hereby assumes and agrees to
carry out (a) the obligation of the CSFR to repay the principal and
pay interest and other charges and premium, if any, in respect of
two-thirds of the Loan and (b) all other obligations of the CSFR
under the Loan Agreement, and the Bank hereby recognizes the
succession of the Czech Republic to the rights of the CSFR under the
Loan Agreement, with the same effect as though the words "the Czech
Republic" were substituted for the words "the Borrower" and the
words "the part of the Loan the Czech Republic has agreed to repay"
were substituted for the words "the Loan" wherever used therein,
subject to the following modifications of the Loan Agreement:

      (a)   Delete Section 1.02 (b) and substitute therefor the
following new Section:

            "Section 1.01 (b) ’Central Bank of the Czech Republic’
      means the Czech National Bank, established and operating
      pursuant to Law No. 6/1993  of the Czech Republic adopted on
      December 17, 1992, as the same may be amended from time to
      time."

      (b)   Delete the words "Central Bank" from Section 2.08 (a)
and substitute therefor the words "Central Bank of the Czech
Republic".

      (c)   Delete the Amortization Schedule in Schedule 2 and
substitute therefor the following new Amortization Schedule:

                                            Payment of Principal
                                             of the Part of the
                                               Loan the Czech
                                             Republic has agreed
                                                  to repay
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      Beginning March 15, 1997                   15,000,000
      through September 15, 2006

______________________________

*     The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents



      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                             ARTICLE II

                    Effective Date; Miscellaneous

      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall take effect as of
January 1, 1993.

      Section 2.02. The Czech Republic shall furnish the Bank, not
later than April 30, 1993:

      (a)   evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the execution
and delivery of the Loan Assumption Agreement on behalf of the Czech
Republic has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action; and

      (b)   an opinion satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable
to the Bank or, if the Bank shall so request, a certificate
satisfactory to the Bank of a competent official of the Czech
Republic showing:

           (i)   that the Loan Assumption Agreement has been duly
                 authorized or ratified by, and executed and
                 delivered on behalf of, the Czech Republic and is
                 legally binding upon the Czech Republic in
                 accordance with its terms; and

          (ii)   such other matters as shall be reasonably requested
                 by the Bank in connection therewith.

      Section 2.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 2.04. The following address is designated to the Bank
by the Czech Republic for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions:

            Ministry of Finance
            Letenska 15
            11810 Prague 1
            Czech Republic

                                           Telex:

                                              121686

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        CZECH REPUBLIC

                        By /s/ M. Zantovsky
                                          Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                        By /s/ K. Dervis
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia