World Bank Document


 CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3213 AL

(Industrial Restructuring Demonstration Project)

between

DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT

Dated January 8, 1991

LOAN NUMBER 3213 AL

LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1991 between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).

     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and

     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

General Conditions; Definitions

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional term has the following meaning: "Fiscal  Year" means the 
twelve-month period corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period 
coincides with the calendar year.

ARTICLE II

The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000), 
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued 
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for 
one hundred percent (100%) of the expenditures made (or, if the  Bank shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. No withdrawal, however, shall be made in respect of payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each  Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in  respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the  preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.

     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.

     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
               immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
               Agreement is signed.

         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
               determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
               annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
               thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after  
               July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than  
               as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.

     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice to 
the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:

               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
               of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
               rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings



               determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
               of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding  
               Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such 
               Interest Period."

               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
               Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
               Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

               "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on 
               January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 
and October 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through its Ministry of Industry with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.

     Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the  Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  Consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.

ARTICLE IV

Financial Covenants

     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound   accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  the Project, of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.

     (b)  The Borrower shall:

          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section, including those for the Special Account for each
               Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
               principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;

         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.

ARTICLE V

Termination

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.



ARTICLE VI

Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of Economy is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Economy
          Immeuble Mauretania
          Place du Perou
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria

          Cable address:                     Telex:

              FINPLAN                          67073
              Alger

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                     Telex:

              INTBAFRAD                         197688 (TRT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
Algiers, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, as of  the day and year first 
above written.

                   DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                   By /s/ Ghazi Hidouci
Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President

Europe, Middle East and North Africa

SCHEDULE 1

Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the further restructuring and 
development of the Borrower’s industrial sector.



     The Project consists of carrying out a program of studies for the purposes  of 
preparing restructuring plans for selected industrial enterprises and industrial 
subsectors in the Borrower’s territory; subject, however, to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.

*     *     *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

SCHEDULE 2

Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each April 1 and October 1

     beginning October 1, 1995
     through October 1, 2004                    250,000

And on April 1, 2005                            250,000

______________________________

* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.

Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid  shall be the 
percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:

    Time of Prepayment                             Premium

                                         The interest rate (expressed as a
                                         percentage per annum) applicable
                                         to the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:

More than three years                              0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but
     not more than six years
     before maturity                               0.35

More than six years but



     not more than eleven years
     before maturity                               0.65

More than eleven years but
     not more than fifteen years
     before maturity                               0.88

More than fifteen years
     before maturity                               1.00