World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3341 POL

             (Financial Institutions Development Loan)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 14, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3341 POL
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 6, 1991,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve restructuring of the financial sector
of the Borrower’s economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution;

      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of the Borrower’s
Debt Reduction Plan (as defined in Section 1.02 (g) of this
Agreement);

      (C)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance (the Cofinanciers) grants (the Cofinance) in an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrrower and the
Cofinanciers; and

      WHEREAS, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided, in support of the Program and in order to assist in the
carrying out of the Project, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (c)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
      any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
      to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
      operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
      and to be derived from it, the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Bank pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means any loan
provided under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (b)   "Participating Bank" means any banking institution which
satisfies the conditions set forth in Part B. 1 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, with which the Borrower shall have entered into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "National Bank of Poland" means the central bank of the
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law
on the National Bank of Poland, dated January 31, 1989, and
published in the Borrower’s Journal of Laws No. 4, as the same may
be amended from time to time;

      (d)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade



Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343/Rev. 3 (1986);

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (g)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the Borrower to be
furnished to the Bank in accordance with Section 3.05 of this
Agreement for partial funding under this Agreement to reduce the
Borrower’s payments of principal and interest on its external loans
from non-official creditors;

      (h)   "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into, in accordance with Section 3.05 of this Agreement,
between the Bank and the Borrower relating to the use of the
proceeds of a portion of the Loan for the Debt Reduction Plan; and

      (i)   "Deutsche Mark" means Deutsche Mark in the currency of
the Federal Republic of Germany.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the Debt Reduction Plan under Part
B of the Project and of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts A, C and D of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C and D of
the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account
in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,



the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end (i) shall (A) carry out Parts B and D of
the Project and (B) carry out Parts A and C of the Project through
the National Bank of Poland, acting as fiscal agent for the
Borrower, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, financial, economic and administrative practices, (ii)
shall cause the Participating Banks to perform in accordance with
the provisions of their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, all
the obligations of said parties therein set forth, (iii) shall take



or cause to be taken, all action necessary or appropriate to enable
the Participating Banks to perform such respective obligations, (iv)
shall not take any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance, and (v) shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for said purposes.

      (b)   In order to enable the Participating Banks properly to
carry out their respective activities under Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to each Participating Bank the
proceeds of the Loan referred to in Part A. 1 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and such Participating Bank, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which
shall include, without limitation, those set forth in said Sched-ule
5.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.03. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying
out of the Program and the Project, the Borrower shall establish and
thereafter maintain with membership, staff and other resources and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   a steering committee to be responsible for the provision
of policy guidance in the execution of the Program and the Project;
and

      (b)   an implementation unit within the Borrower’s Ministry of
Finance, to function as the secretariat for the steering committee
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and to be responsible
for the overall coordination of the execution of the Program and the
Project.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the procurement of the goods and
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, as soon as possible, submit
a debt reduction plan to the Bank for its review. If, in the
judgment of the Bank, such plan meets the Bank’s requirements for
Bank support of debt reduction operations, the Borrower and the Bank
shall seek to conclude an implementation agreement for such plan as
soon as possible after the Bank has approved support therefor.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.



     (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and the records
                   and accounts for the Special Account for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.

      (b)   The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become
effective by August 31, 1992, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (c)   (i)    Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:



                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii)
of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the arrangements with the National Bank of Poland
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (i) (B) of this Agreement have been
concluded in accordance with the provisions of said Section; and

      (b)   the steering committee and implementation unit referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement have been established in
accordance with the provisions of said Section.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            00-916 Warszawa
            ul. Swietokrzyska 12
            Republic of Poland

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINF                      814386 PL
                   Poland



      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as
of the day and year first above written.

                   REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                   By /s/ Stefan Kawalec
                                         Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Ian Hume
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods for Part A         25,000,000    )
    of the Project                        )     100% of foreign
                                           )    expenditures
(2) Goods for Part A         25,000,000    )
    of the Project                         )

(3) Debt Reduction Plan     100,000,000         To be agreed
    under Part B of                             between the
    the Project                                 Borrower and the
                                                Bank, subject to
                                                the provisions of
                                                paragraph 3 (e) of
                                                this Schedule

(4) Goods, consul-           48,000,000    )    100% of foreign
    tants’ services,                       )    expenditures and
    technical licenses                     )    100% of local
    and training for                       )    expenditures
    Part C of the                          )    (ex-factory cost)
    Project                                )    for goods, 100%



                                          )     of foreign
(5) Goods, consul-            2,000,000    )    expenditures for
    tants’ services,                       )    technical licenses
    technical licenses                     )    and training and
    and training for                       )    100% for consul-
    Part D of the                          )    tants’ services
    Project                                )
                            ___________

         TOTAL              200,000,000
                            ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:

      (a)   No withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures
under Categories (1) and (2):

            (i)    for goods included in the following SITC groups
                   or subgroups, or any successor groups or
                   subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
                   designated by the Bank by notice to the
                   Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and associated
                                  materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
                                  precious stones, unworked or
                                  worked

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                  thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals
                                  (except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971                --          Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)

           (ii)    for goods procured under contracts costing less
                   than $25,000 equivalent;

          (iii)    for goods supplied under a contract which any
                   national or international financing institution



                   or agency other than the Bank shall have
                   financed or agreed to finance; and

           (iv)    for goods intended for a military or
                   paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.

      (b)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Category (2), unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement have been taken. If, after the exchange of views described
in this sub-paragraph, the Bank shall have given notice to the
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to
the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Loan allocated to Category (2) or any part thereof.

      (c)   No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (4) and (5) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after May 15, 1991.

      (d)   No withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures
under Category (4) by a Participating Bank until the Bank shall have
communicated its acceptance to the Borrower of evidence that a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of, and
is legally binding upon, the Borrower and such Participating Bank.

      (e)   If the Implementation Agreement shall not have been
entered into by June 30, 1992, or such other date as agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, then the proceeds of the Loan allocated
to Category (3) shall, at the request of the Borrower, be
reallocated to Categories (1) and (2) on a proportional basis for
the purposes of Part A of the Project. Further, if any amount of the
Loan allocated to Category (3) is not used for the Debt Reduction
Plan, in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation
Agreement, the Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower,
reallocate such amount to Categories (1) and (2) on a proportional
basis for the purposes of Part A of the Project.

      (f)   Applications for withdrawal of amounts of the Loan
allocated to Categories (1) and (2) shall, to the extent
practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in modernizing the
regulatory framework, and strengthening the institutional
capabilities, of the Borrower’s financial system so as to facilitate
the execution of the Program, and subject to the execution and
effectiveness of the Implementation Agreement, in implementing the
Debt Reduction Plan.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      The financing of urgently needed imports in support of the
Program.

Part B:



      The implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan.

Part C:

      The financing, through the provision of loans, including
Subsidiary Loans, of specific development projects to strengthen the
organization, management and operations of the Participating Banks
and to restructure and privatize Participating Banks, including the
provision of staff training and computer hardware and software
required therefor.

Part D:

      The carrying out by the Borrower of programs to develop
further the financial system, including:

(1)   a program to: (a) develop further the regulatory framework for
banking operations and the prudential regulations applicable
thereto; and (b) design a suitable collateral security system and
deposit insurance system so as to facilitate banking operations;

(2)   a program to develop a suitable regulatory framework governing
bankruptcy and liquidation of banking institutions;
(3)   a program to develop further the securities market including:
(a) the formulation and application of an appropriate regulatory
framework governing the operations of the securities market; (b) the
establishment, under appropriate operational policies and proce-
dures, staffing, equipping and operation of a stock exchange,
including development and introduction of an automated system for
the trading of securities; (c) the carrying out of a review of the
operations of the securities market to identify and implement
suitable strategies to diversify the range of securities and
increase the participation by institutional and individual investors
in the securities market; and (d) the provision of training to
securities market participants and potential issuers of and
investors in securities, in the operations of the securities market;

(4)   a program to design and implement an appropriate strategy to
facilitate the privatization of state-owned banks, including the
development of institutions and procedures required therefor; and

(5)   a program of training to strengthen the professional skills of
bank supervisors, bankers and accountants.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in Dollars)*

      On each June 1 and December 1

            beginning December 1, 1996
            through   December 1, 2007           8,335,000

      On June 1, 2008                            8,295,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the



premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but not                0.65
      more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods under Part A of the Project

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

1.    Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."

2.   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely



      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

3.    Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

1.    by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

2.    by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial
practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis
of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers
from at least two countries, except that direct contracting
procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered
appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and

3.    by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the basis
of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more than
one supplier.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    With respect to each contract referred to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

2.    With respect to each contract referred to in Part B of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

3.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 2 of this Part shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

Section II. Procurement of Goods and Technical Licenses
            under Parts C and D of the Project

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures

1.    International Shopping. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least two suppliers from at least two different countries



eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Direct Contracting. Goods and technical licenses which the
Bank agrees (a) are of a proprietary nature, or (b) the timely
supply thereof is critical for efficient Project execution, may be
procured through direct negotiations with the suppliers thereof, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section III.       Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                 Principal Terms and Conditions of
                  the Subsidiary Loan Agreements

      Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the
principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall
apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Terms.

1.    The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall: (a) be
denominated in Dollars or Deutsche Mark, at the option of the
Participating Bank; and (b) be the equivalent in the currency of
denomination (determined as of the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
Account, as the case may be) of the value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of the
goods, technical licenses and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing for



such Subsidiary Loan.

2.    Each Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal amount
thereof, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest,
during each six-month period commencing on January 1 and July 1 ofeach calendar year, 
at a rate equal to (a) LIBOR plus a margin, in
the case of Subsidiary Loans denominated in Dollars and (b) FIBOR
plus a margin, in the case of Subsidiary Loans denominated in
Deutsche Marks, all as shall be calculated by the Borrower on the
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Each Subsidiary Loan shall have a maturity of not more than 10
years, inclusive of a grace period of 3 years.

4.    The right of the each Participating Bank to the use of its
respective Subsidiary Loan, shall be: (a) suspended upon failure by
such party to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (b) terminated if such right shall
have been suspended pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) hereof for a
continuous period of 60 days.

B.    Conditions.

1.    A Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be entered into only with a
banking institution duly established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower, which shall have (a) established its credit-
worthiness and (b) developed a specific development project proposed
to be carried out under Part C of the Project, all to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank, on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which the Participating Bank shall undertake to:

      (a)   carry out its activities under Part C of the Project and
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial standards and appropriate practices, with qualified
management and staff, and provide, promptly as needed the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;

      (b)   (i)    employ consultants with qualifications,
                   experience and terms of reference satisfactory
                   to the Bank, to assist it in the carrying out of
                   its activities under Part C of the Project; and

           (ii)    procure the goods and consultants’ services to
                   be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
                   accordance with the provisions of Sections II
                   and III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use
                   such goods and services exclusively in the
                   carrying out of its activities under said Part
                   C;

      (c)   exchange views with, and furnish all such information
to, the Borrower or the Bank, as may be reasonably requested by the
Borrower or the Bank, with regard to the progress of its activities
under Part C of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of said Part of the Project;

      (d)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and

      (e)   (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank,



as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year certified copies of said financial
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report
of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the
Borrower or the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)
furnish to the Borrower or the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof as the Borrower or the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.

                          SCHEDULE 6

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework, con-
sistent with the objectives of the Program, as determined on the
basis of indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.

2.    Carrying out of a program, on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce the growth of credit extended
under government credit programs.

3.    Carrying out of a program, on the basis of guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, to compensate state-owned banks for
foreign exchange losses incurred by said banks.

4.    (a)   Enactment of a law governing the National Bank of Poland
and a banking law, both of which, in the opinion of the Borrower and
the Bank, provide a suitable regulatory framework for the operations
of the National Bank of Poland and of commercial banks; and
(b) adoption of prudential regulations, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing standards and requirements applicable to commercial banks
in respect of licensing, capital adequacy, credit and investment
concentrations, loan classification, provisioning, interest accrual,
accounting and audits.

5.    Establishment, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, of a bank deposit insurance fund.

6.    Transformation of nine state-owned banks into joint-stock
companies pursuant to the Borrower’s Banking Law dated January 31,
1989 and published in the Borrower’s Journal of Laws No. 4, 1989, as
amended to the date of this Agreement, and selection, on the basis
of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, of at least two commercial
banks suitable for privatization.

                            SCHEDULE 7

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (4), and
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.



3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to para- graph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the



Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.