World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3363 RO

        (Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Project)

                              between

                              ROMANIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 3, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3363 RO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1991, between ROMANIA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS (A): The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS (B): The Borrower intends to contract from the
European Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to seventeen million four hundred thousand dollars
($17,400,000) to assist in the financing of Part A.2 of the Project,
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; and

      WHEREAS (C): The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Agricultural Bank" means the Borrower’s Agricultural
Bank (Banca Agricola), established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Decision No. 1196, dated November 12, 1990;

      (b)   "Bucharest Metro" means the Borrower’s Bucharest
metropolitan underground rail transport system;

      (c)   "Categories" means, collectively, each of the categories
of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and the term "Category" means any one of the Categories;

      (d)   "Commercial Bank" means the Borrower’s Commercial Bank
(Banca Commerciala Romana), established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Decision No. 1196, dated November 12, 1990;

      (e)   "CONVEX SA" means the Borrower’s Commercial Company for
Bulk Terminal Operations, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Decision No. 19, dated January 10, 1991;

      (f)   "CONTRANSIMEX" means the Borrower’s Foreign Trade
Company for Public Works and Engineering, established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 93, dated January 31, 1991;

      (g)   "Cooperative Bank" means the Borrower’s Cooperative Bank
(Bank Coop), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s
Governmental Decision No. 992, dated November 3, 1990;

      (h)   "Development Bank" means the Borrower’s Romanian Bank
for Development (Banca Romana de Dezvoltare), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 1178, dated Novem-
ber 2, 1990;

      (i)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in the calendar year;

      (j)   "Interbank Market Rate" means the foreign currency
exchange rate for the convertibility of the Leu (as such term is
defined hereinafter) as established from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 15, dated 1990;

      (k)   "Leu" means the monetary unit of the Borrower, and the
term "Lei" means the plural of the term Leu;

      (l)   "MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and
Foodstuff;



      (m)   "MEF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and
Finance;

      (n)   "MOI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry;

      (o)   "MOLSP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection;

      (p)   "NAP" means the Borrower’s National Agency for
Privatization (Agentia Nationale de Privatizare), established and
operating under the Borrower’s Decision No. 823, dated July 25,
1990;

      (q)   "NCS" means the Borrower’s National Commission of
Statistics (Comisia Nationale de Statistica), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 27, dated Decem-
ber 30, 1990;

      (r)   "Participation Agreements" means, collectively, each of
the participating bank agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Participating Banks (as such term is defined
hereinafter) pursuant to Section 3.02 (b), and Part B of Schedule 7
to, this Agreement, and the term "Participation Agreement" means any
one of the Participation Agreements;

      (s)   "Participating Banks" means, collectively, each of the
Agricultural Bank and the Development Bank, and the term
"Participating Bank" means either one of the Participating Banks;

      (t)   "PETROM" means the Borrower’s Autonomous Petroleum
Authority (Regia Autonoma a Petrolului), established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 23, dated January 30, 1991;

      (u)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
within MEF pursuant to the MEF Ministerial Decision No. 233, dated
April 15, 1991;

      (v)   "RAL" means the Borrower’s Autonomous Lignite Authority
(Regia Autonoma de Lignitului), established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower’s Decision No. 1211, dated November 26, 1990;

      (w)   "RENEL" means the Borrower’s Autonomous Electricity
Authority (Regia Autonoma de Electricitate), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 1199, dated
November 12, 1990;

      (x)   "ROMGAZ" means the Borrower’s Autonomous Natural Gas
Authority (Regia Autonoma a Gazelor Naturale), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 16, dated Janu-
ary 10, 1991;

      (y)   "ROMAGRIMEX" means the Borrower’s Foreign Trade Company
for Agriculture, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Decision No. 69, dated January 26, 1991;

      (z)   "ROMPOST-TELECOM" means the Borrower’s Romanian Post and
Telecommunications Authority, established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Decision No. 883, dated July 30, 1990;

      (aa)  "Savings Bank" means the Borrower’s Savings Bank (Casa
de Economii si Consemnatiuni), established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Decree No. 371, dated 1958;

      (bb)  "SOCEP SA" means the Borrower’s Commercial Company for
Container and General Cargo Terminal Operations, established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decision No. 19, dated Janu-
ary 10, 1991;

      (cc)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, each
of the subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Implementing Agencies (as such term is defined



hereinafter) pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of, and Part A of Schedule
7 to, this Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means
any one of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

      (dd)  "Subloans" means the loans proposed to be made by the
Borrower to the Implementing Agencies (as such term is defined
hereinafter) for the carrying out of their Respective Project
Component (as such term is defined hereinafter) in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the corresponding Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the term "Subloan" means any one of the Subloans;

      (ee)  "Implementing Agencies" means, collectively, the
Borrower’s agencies, enterprises and other entities referred to in
paragraph (b), paragraphs (e) and (f), paragraphs (o) through (q),
paragraph (t), paragraphs (v) through (z) and paragraph (bb) of this
Section, and the term "Implementing Agency" means any one of the
Implementing Agencies;

      (ff)  "Respective Project Component" means in the case of:
Bucharest Metro, Part A (4) (b) of the Project; CONVEX SA, Part A
(4) (c) of the Project; CONTRANSIMEX, Part A (4) (a) of the Project;
MOLSP, Part B (8) of the Project; NAP, Part B (2) of the Project;
NCS, Part C (2) of the Project; PETROM, Parts A (1) (a) and B (5)
(b) (ii) and (iii) of the Project; RAL, Parts A (3) and B (7) of the
Project; RENEL, Part A (2) of the Project; ROMGAZ, Part A (1) (b) of
the Project; ROMAGRIMEX, Part A (7) of the Project; ROMPOST-TELECOM,
Part A (5) of the Project; and SOCEP SA, Part A (4) (c) of the
Project; and

      (gg)  "Special Accounts" means, collectively, the accounts
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and the term
"Special Account" means any one of the Special Accounts.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and eighty million dollars ($180,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in dollars and a special
deposit account in deutsche mark in banks acceptable to the Bank and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of



Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity



with appropriate technical, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds
of the Loan available to the Implementing Agencies for the carrying
out of their Respective Project Component under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, includ-
ing, inter alia, the principal terms and conditions set forth in
Part A of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (b) For the purposes of administering the implementation and
supervision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the Borrower shall
enter into Participation Agreements with the Participating Banks on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter
alia, the principal terms and conditions set forth in Part B of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c) Without any limitation or restriction to the provisions of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise its rights
and comply with its obligations under each of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and Participation Agreements in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or Participation
Agreements, or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
December 31, 1992, submit to the Bank for its review and comment an
action plan, developed on the basis of the recommendations of the
energy cost and pricing study referred to in Part B (4) (b) (i) of
the Project, for, inter alia, reforming the pricing structure of its
energy sector; and (ii) promptly thereafter carry out said action
plan with due diligence and efficiency, taking into account the
Bank’s comments thereon.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1993,
submit to the Bank for its review and comment an action plan, based
on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for, inter alia, the
prompt improvement of RAL’s economic and financial viability
(including, but without limitation, the restructuring or closure of
lignite mines and the carrying out of measures for increasing
production from low cost surface mines and decreasing production
from inefficient underground mines), and for ensuring the avail-
ability of necessary lignite coal supplies for the Borrower’s two
(2) rehabilitated power plants located in Rovinari and Turceni.

      (c)  The Borrower shall: (i) not later than September 1, 1992,
on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the first phase
of the irrigation sector study referred to in Part B (5) of the
Project, submit to the Bank, for its review and comments the
Borrower’s proposed immediate and short-term priority investments
for its irrigation sector; and (ii) not later than August 1, 1993,
on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the second and
third phase of said study, submit to the Bank, for its review and
comments, both the Borrower’s proposed five (5) year and ten (10)
year investment programs for its irrigation sector, which programs
shall be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, maintain, or cause to be maintained, the PIU in a form and
with such composition and functions (including, but without
limitation, those set forth in paragraph A of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement) under terms of reference all satisfactory to the Bank.



      Section 3.05. Prior to initiating the procurement of any goods
provided under Part 4 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sale through
competitive bidding of said goods, which system shall ensure, inter
alia, that: (i) each of said goods shall be purchased by the highest
bidders, on the basis of a competitive bidding process to be
publicly announced; (ii) bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes
and shall specify the offered price and required quantities; (iii)
opening of bids shall take place in public and in the presence of
bidders wishing to attend; and (iv) no award shall be made unless
the price offered is equal to at least the good’s Lei equivalent of
its foreign currency c.i.f. cost as valued at the lowest Interbank
Market Rate for the thirty (30) days immediately preceding the
public announcement.

     Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than August
31, 1992, review and exchange views with the Bank on the following:
(i) the Borrower’s unfinished investment projects, for the purpose
of, inter alia, determining the Borrower’s future plan for the
financing of said projects; (ii) on the basis of the findings and
recommendations pursuant to the review under sub-paragraph (i)
above, the Borrower’s proposed investment programs and related
financing plans for its public investments to be financed by its
central government and semi-autonomous agencies during the Fiscal
Year 1993.

      (b)   Promptly after the review provided for in sub-paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out said invest-
ment programs with due diligence and efficiency, taking into account
the Bank’s comments and views thereon.

      Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the Implementing
Agencies and the departments, agencies or other entities of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of



expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                  Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Accounts
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:

      (a)  The EIB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1991, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (b)   (i)   Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the EIB Loan shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
                        or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                        EIB Loan Agreement, or

                  (B)   the EIB Loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.

           (ii)   Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph (b) shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under the EIB Loan
                  Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources
                  on terms and conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in sub-paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.



                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   That the Borrower has entered into at least two (2)
separate Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, in
respect of the carrying out the Project, or any part thereof;

      (b)   That the Borrower has entered into a Participation
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the Partici-
pating Banks; and

      (c)   That the Borrower has opened the Special Accounts on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank by counsel acceptable to the Bank, namely,
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Participation
Agreements referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.01
above, respectively, has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto, and is
legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            8 Doamnei Str.
            Bucharest
            Romania

            Cable address:                Telex:

                                            11239
                                            MINFIN

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be



signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        ROMANIA

                        By /s/ V. Constantinescu
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ R. Cheethem
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

1.  Goods:

    (a)  (i)   Part A (1)        26,000,000)
               (i) of the                  )
               Project                     )
                                           )
        (ii)   Part A (1)         9,000,000)
               (ii) of the                 )
               Project                     )
                                           )
    (b)  Part A (2) of           22,800,000)    100% of foreign
         the Project                       )    expenditures
                                           )
    (c)  Part A (3) of           26,600,000)
         the Project                       )
                                           )
    (d)  Part A (4) of                     )
         the Project                       )
                                           )
         (i)   Part A (4) (i)    26,800,000)
        (ii)   Part A (4) (ii)    2,600,000)
       (iii)   Part A (4) (iii)   1,700,000)
        (iv)   Part A (4) (iv)    3,900,000)

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

    (e)  Part A (5) of           6,800,000)
         the Project                      )
                                          )
    (f)  Part A (6) of          15,900,000)     100% of foreign
         the Project                      )     expenditures
                                          )
    (g)  Part A (7) of           7,000,000)



         the Project                      )

2.  Consultants’
    services and
    training:

    (a)Part B (1) of              400,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (b)  Part B (2) of            1,000,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (c)  Part B (3) of            1,400,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (d)  Part B (4) of            2,000,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (e)  Part B (5) of            3,800,000)    100% of foreign
         the Project                   )        expenditures
                                       )
    (f)  Part B (6) of            2,700,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (g)  Part B (7) of              900,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (h)  Part B (8) of            3,600,000)
         the Project                   )
                                       )
    (i)  Part C (1) of            2,600,000)
         the Project                   )

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

    (j)  Part C (2) of            3,000,000)
         the Project                       )    100% of foreign
                                           )    expenditures
    (k)  Part C (3) of              200,000)
         the Project                       )

3.  Unallocated                    9,300,000
                                 ___________

         TOTAL                   180,000,000
                                 ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (i) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000), may be made in respect of
Categories 1, 2 (b), 2 (c), 2 (e), 2 (g), 2 (h), 2 (i) and 2 (k) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
May 1, 1991; (ii) no deposits shall be made into the Special
Accounts, and no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
for expenditures under Category 1, except Category 1 (f), unless the
Borrower shall have: (A) entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with the corresponding Implementing Agency for the carrying out of
its Respective Project Component, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.02 of, and Part A of Schedule 7 to, this Agreement; and
(B) furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank, from
counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that said Subsidiary Loan



Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto, and is legally binding
upon such parties in accordance with its terms.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the output
performance of certain of the Borrower’s key economic sectors,
through financing said sectors’ imports of vital spare parts and
other goods; and (b) provide technical assistance to assist the
Borrower in carrying out its ongoing macro-economic and sectoral
reform program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Import of Goods

(1)   Petroleum and Gas Sectors: Provision of drilling, well,
pumping and other equipment, spare parts and materials for the
rehabilitation of about: (a) one thousand two hundred (1,200)
petroleum wells; and (b) ninety (90) gas wells.

(2)   Power Sector: Provision of equipment, spare parts and related
materials for:

      (a)   Rehabilitating four (4) 330 MW electricity generating
units, two (2) located in Turceni and the other two (2) located in
Rovinari;

      (b)   Upgrading the protection system of three (3) transformer
stations located in Tintareni, Urechesti and Filesti;

      (c)   Improving the operating safety of the central electri-
city dispatching center located in Bucharest, and of all regional
electricity dispatching centers;

      (d)   Upgrading the performance of the electrostatic
precipitators located in Turceni;

      (e)   Provision of equipment and related materials for the
measurement of pollution emission levels; and

      (f)   Provision of computer equipment and materials.

(3)   Lignite Mining Sector: Provision of equipment, spare parts and
related materials for the RAL lignite mines which supply lignite
coal to the two (2) power plants located in Rovinari and Turceni.

(4)   Transportation Sector: Provision of: (a) spare parts, tires
and engines for buses and trucks; (b) safety tools and measurement
devices for the Bucharest Metro; and (c) equipment, spare parts and
related materials for the deep-sea Port of Constanza, including lift
trucks, bulk handling and container equipment, forklift trucks,
cranes and conveyor system parts.

(5)   Telecommunications Sector: Provision of telecommunications
cables, transmission equipment, spare parts, measuring instruments
and related items.

(6)   Irrigation Sector: Provision of irrigation pumps, motors,
spare parts and related equipment and materials for upgrading the
pumping capacities of the following fifteen (15) irrigation systems:
B-OIANU-STICLEANU CALARASI; SPE VITCOVIA; SIST. CONESTI; SIST.
GREOCA; SIST. GURA IALOMITEI; IEGALIA (SPA BORECA); DICHISENI (T.
CALARASI); GALATI-CALARASI; MOVILA MIRESEI (T. BRAILA); SIST. GALATI
(SPA GHIMIA); IMB; GROJORI-CHISCONI; BORCEA deSUS (CALARASI);
BILIESTI-CIORVANOSTI; and GALICEA (DOJI).



(7)   Agricultural Mechanization: Provision of batteries and trans-
mission belts for harvesting combines.

Part B:     Technical Assistance

(1)   Accounting and Auditing: Developing, introducing and streng-
thening a national accounting and auditing profession, including the
development of a modern accounting and auditing system.

(2)   Private Sector Development: Enterprise Privatization:

      (a)   Designing and developing a strategy and related legis-
lation, regulations, options and techniques for the privatization of
state enterprises;

      (b)   Developing techniques and methodologies for small-scale
state enterprise privatization;

      (c)   Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a privatization
program of selected small establishments; and

      (d)   Provision of advisory and expert services to strengthen
the capabilities of NAP in the areas of the formulation of an
enterprise privatization strategy, and assist in model privatization
programs, including study seminars and training abroad for selected
NAP professional staff and the provision of computer equipment and
materials in connection therewith.

3.    Industrial Restructuring:

      (a)   Developing a strategy and institutional framework, and
an implementation program thereunder, for the restructuring of state
industrial enterprises, and preparing model restructuring programs
for eight (8) state industrial enterprises to be selected in
accordance with a methodology and criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
and

      (b)   Provision of advisory and expert services to strengthen
the capabilities of MOI in the areas of energy policy and industrial
restructuring, including study seminars and training abroad for
selected MOI professional staff and the provision of computer
equipment and materials in connection therewith.

(4)   Bank Restructuring: Preparing strategy development plans,
staff training plans and assessments of computer hardware
requirements for each of the Agricultural Bank, Commercial Bank,
Cooperative Bank, Development Bank and Savings Bank.

(5)   Energy:

      (a)  Developing a system for the determination of energy costs
and prices, and an implementation program thereunder, for the full
liberalization of said energy prices; and

      (b)  Carrying out of the following studies, based on terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a study of energy cost and
pricing; (ii) a study auditing and assessing oil and gas reserves;
and (iii) a study evaluating the Borrower’s hydrocarbon potential.

(6)   Irrigation: Carrying out of an irrigation sector study, based
on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, assessing the
existing irrigation system for the purpose of developing
recommendations for its modernization/privatization.
(7)   Mining: Provision of advisory and expert services to: (a)
assist in the cost efficient organization, and the increase in
productivity, of certain of the Borrower’s low cost surface mines;
and (b) formulating recommendations for the long-term improvement of
said mines’ productivity performance.

(8)   Employment Services: Assistance to MOLSP in the areas of,
inter alia, staff development, computerization of employment
services, development of pro-active labor market measures, an



employment counselling and training referral service, a labor market
information system, and a social insurance system and pension fund,
including provision of experts’ services, training and computer
equipment and materials in connection therewith.

Part C:     Institutional Development

(1)   Provision of advisory and expert services to:

      (a)   Strengthen the capabilities of MEF in the areas of
macro-economic policy-making, quantitative analysis, economic
forecasting, review of non-performing public investment portfolios,
development of a public investment review system, including study
seminars and training abroad for selected MEF professional staff and
the provision of computer equipment and materials in connection
therewith; and

      (b)   Strengthen the capabilities of the National Reform
Council in the areas of macro-economic and legislative reform,
including study seminars and training abroad for selected
professional staff of said council and the provision of computer
equipment and materials in connection therewith.

(2)   Provision of mainframe computer equipment and materials for
statistical data analysis and processing to NCS, including training
for selected NCS staff in connection therewith.

(3)  Provision of advisory and expert services to strengthen the
capabilities of the PIU in respect of Project coordination,
supervision and implementation, including the provision of equipment
and materials in connection therewith.

                           *    *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      beginning March 15, 1997
      through September 15, 2006                9,000,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied                                     
by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity



More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity

More than thirteen years                   1.00
      before maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) or more each.

Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of thirty-three
million dollars ($33,000,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three (3) suppliers from at least two (2) different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Contracts for batteries and transmission belts for combines
and harvesters awarded not later than July 31, 1991, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of seven million five
hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000), may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers from at least two (2)
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for the procurement of proprietary items, or items
required for standardization, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers with the prior approval of the Bank in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the



preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.    Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, only
such consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
A.    Coordination

      The Borrower’s government, as represented by the MEF, shall
coordinate the overall implementation of the Project through the
PIU, which PIU shall, inter alia: (1) liaise with the Implementing
Agencies and other entities responsible for carrying out the
Project, or any part thereof; (2) maintain records of Project
activities; (3) prepare, for furnishing to the Bank, semiannual
reports on progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project; and
(4) arrange for the carrying out of the audit referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement.

B.    Project Implementation

(1)   PETROM shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts A
      (1) (a) and B (5) (b) (ii) and (iii) of the Project, and
      ROMGAZ shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part A (1)
      (b) of the Project. For this purpose, PETROM shall, inter
      alia: (a) assign to a special unit, to be established and
      adequately staffed within PETROM by September 1, 1991, the
      procurement of goods under said Part A (1); and (b) carry out
      the studies referred to in Part B (5) (b) (ii) and (iii) of
      the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
      Bank, and ensure the completion of said studies by July 31,
      1993, and thereafter exchange views with the Bank on the
      findings and recommendations thereof.

(2)   RENEL shall be responsible for the carrying out of the
      rehabilitation of the two (2) power plants, referred to in
      Part A (2) of the Project. RENEL shall, inter alia: (a)
      maintain, with adequate staff and resources, the existence of
      the implementation unit established by it for purposes of said
      Part A (2); (b) prepare, through said unit, and furnish to the
      Bank quarterly reports on progress achieved in the carrying
      out of said Part A (2).

(3)   RAL shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts A (3)
      and B (7) of the Project.

(4)   CONTRANSIMEX shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part
      A (4) (a) of the Project.
(5)   Bucharest Metro shall be responsible for the carrying out of
      Part A (4) (b) of the Project.



(6)   CONVEX and SOCEP SA shall be responsible for the carrying out
      of Part A (4) (c) of the Project.

(7)   ROMPOST-TELECOM shall be responsible for the carrying out of
      Part A (5) of the Project.

(8)   MOA shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts A (6)
      and B (6) of the Project. MOA shall, inter alia: (a) coor-
      dinate, through its Department of Irrigation, the procurement
      and distribution, to the irrigation entities referred to in
      Part A (6) of the Project, of the equipment to be imported
      under said Part A (6); (b) carry out the study referred to in
      said Part B (6) under terms of reference satisfactory to the
      Bank, and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
      the report containing the findings and recommendations of such
      study upon the completion thereof.

(9)   ROMAGRIMEX shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part
      A (7) of the Project.

(10)  MEF shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts B (1),
      C (1) and C (3) of the Project.

(11)  NAP shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part B (2) of
      the Project.

(12)  MOI shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts B (3),
      B (5) (a) and B (5) (b) (i) of the Project. MOI shall, inter
      alia: (a) ensure, by December 31, 1992, the preparation of
      strategy and policies for enterprise restructuring, referred
      to in said Part B (3).

(13)  Each of the Agricultural Bank, Commercial Bank, Cooperative
      Bank, Development Bank and Savings Bank shall be responsible
      for carrying out their respective parts under Part B (4) of
      the Project.

(14)  MOLSP shall be responsible for carrying out Part B (8) of the
      Project, through a unit to be established within MOLSP by
      September 1, 1991. Said unit shall be responsible for, inter
      alia: (a) preparation of a program, under terms of reference
      satisfactory to the Bank, for contracting the advisory and
      expert services, and the carrying out of training; and
      (b) preparation of semiannual reports on the progress achieved
      in carrying out said Part B (8).

(15)  NCS shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part C (2) of
      the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                         Special Accounts

 1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1 and 2
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an aggregate
amount equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively



for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Accounts such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Accounts at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Accounts for
                   Eligible Expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Accounts:

      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any



payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Accounts.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 7

                  Principal Terms and Conditions
                 of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
                   and Participation Agreements

Part A:     Subsidiary Loan Agreements

      The Borrower shall, through MEF, relend to each Implementing
Agency the proceeds of the Loan required for carrying out said
agency’s Respective Project Component, under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and each
Implementing Agency on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including the following principal terms and conditions:

1.    The maximum Subloans to be on-lent by the Borrower to each
Implementing Agency shall not exceed the amount of the Loan
allocated to such agency’s Respective Project Component under the
corresponding Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.    The proceeds of each Subloan referred to in paragraph 1 above
shall be denominated in dollars or deutsche mark, and shall be
repaid in semiannual installments in: (i) dollars; or (ii) deutsche
mark; or (iii) Lei equivalent, such equivalent to be determined on
the basis of the Interbank Market Rate on the respective dates of
repayment, or such other free market determined exchange rate
published by the Borrower’s Central Bank and acceptable to the Bank.

3.    The maturity term of each Subloan shall not exceed ten (10)
years, including a grace period of three (3) years, and each
Implementing Agency shall be entitled to repay its respective
Subloan, or any part thereof, prior to the agreed maturity thereof
without any premium for prepayment.

4.    Each Implementing Agency shall pay to the Borrower interest on
the principal amount of its respective Subloan, withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate per annum equal to at
least: (i) the dollar six (6) month London Interbank Offered Rate
plus one and one-half percentage points (1-1/2%); or (ii) the
deutsche mark six (6) month Frankfurt Interbank Market Rate plus one
and one-half percentage points (1-1/2%).

5.    Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide for the corres-



ponding Implementing Agency’s obligation, inter alia, to carry out
its Respective Project Component with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with terms and conditions which shall be con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

6.    Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be subject to the Bank’s
prior approval.

Part B:     Participation Agreements

      For the purposes of assisting the Borrower in administering
the implementation and supervision of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, the Borrower shall enter into a Participation Agreement
with each of the Participating Banks, which agreement shall have
been approved by the Bank. The Participation Agreements shall
provide for, inter alia: (i) the Borrower’s obligation to pay to
each Participating Bank an annual administration fee to be
established as a percentage of amounts collected by said bank from
the Implementing Agencies; and (ii) each Participating Bank’s
obligation to administer the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in
accordance with sound financial, managerial, administrative and
banking standards, and to maintain separate records, in respect of
each said agreement, in accordance with sound accounting practices.