World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3342 POL

             (Privatization and Restructuring Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 10, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3342 POL
                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 23, 1991,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve privatization and restructuring of the
Borrower’s economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower’s
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution;

      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of the Borrower’s
Debt Reduction Plan (as defined in Section 1.02 (i) of this
Agreement);

      (C)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



the Project;

      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance (the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate amount
equivalent to $95,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinanciers
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Cofinanciers; and

      (E)   Part D of the Project will be carried out by the Polish
Development Bank (PDB) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PDB part of
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PDB;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PDB pursuant to paragraph 1 of
Part D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "Charter" means the Charter of the Polish Development
Bank dated October 11, 1990;

      (d)   "Statement of Policy" means PDB’s statement of lending
and investment policy as adopted and approved by the Board of
Directors of PDB on May 20, 1991;

      (e)   "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the
accounts referred to, respectively, in paragraph (b) (i) and
paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and "Special
Accounts" means the Special Account A and the Special Account B;

      (f)   "Category" means a Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the loan as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;



      (g)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);

      (h)   "Deutsche Mark" means Deutsche Mark in the currency of
the Federal Republic of Germany;

      (i)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the Borrower to be
furnished to the Bank in accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement for partial funding under this Agreement to reduce
the Borrower’s payments of principal and interest on its external
loans from non-official creditors; and

      (j)   "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into, in accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, between the Bank and the Borrower relating to the use of
the proceeds of a portion of the Loan for the Debt Reduction Plan.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred eighty million dollars ($280,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the Debt Reduction Plan under Part
B of the Project and of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts A, C and D of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, open and maintain in dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment (i) for the
purposes of Part C of the Project, a special deposit account in a
bank, acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) for the purposes of Part D of
the Project, a special deposit account in PDB. Deposits into, and
payments out of, each of the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:



            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, technical and financial practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.



                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

           (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

         (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

           (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count or payment out of the Special Accounts was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

         (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

          (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in para-
                  graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                  such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the pro- cedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   A situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or any significant part thereof, will
be carried out.

      (b)   PDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations



under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PDB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of PDB to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PDB or for the suspension of its operations.

      (f)   Any of the Cofinanciers’ Agreements shall have failed to
become effective by June 30, 1992, or such later date as the Bank
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (g)  (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms thereof, or

                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity there-
                        of.

          (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
                  cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                  to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and PDB;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by PDB, and is legally binding upon PDB
in accordance with its terms.



      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Ownership Changes of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Ownership Changes
            00-525 Warszawa
            ul. Krucza 36
            Poland

                                          Telex:

                                            812698

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                        By /s/ Jacek Tomorowicz
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of



                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods under Part A        25,000,000        100% of foreign
    of the Project                              expenditures

(2) Debt Reduction            50,000,000        To be agreed
    Plan under Part B                           between the
    of the Project                              Borrower and the
                                                Bank, subject to
                                                the provisions of
                                                paragraph 4 of
                                                this Schedule

(3) Goods, consultants’       55,000,000        100% of foreign
    services and train-                         expenditures and
    ing under Part C                  100% of local
    of the Project                    expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                for goods, 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for
                                                training and 100%
                                                for consultants’
                                                services

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Under Part D
    of the Project

    (a)  goods, tech-        120,000,000        100% of foreign
         nical licenses,                        expenditures and
         consultants’                           100% of local
         services and                           expenditures
         training                               (ex-factory cost)
                                                for goods, 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for training
                                                and 100% for con-
                                                sultants’ services

    (b)  Capitalized           5,000,000        Amounts capita-
         interest                               lized pursuant to
                                                paragraph A.3 of
                                                Annex B to the
                                                Schedule to the
                                                Project Agreement

(5) Unallocated               25,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               280,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:



      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (4) until the
Borrower shall have developed a satisfactory time-bound program for
the mass privatization of state enterprises;

      (c)   expenditures under Category (2) except following the
execution and effectiveness of, and in accordance with the terms and
conditions of, the Implementation Agreement;

      (d)   expenditures under Category (3) until evidence shall
have been received by the Bank that the technical assistance
procurement unit referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 5
to this Agreement has been established in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraph 1;

      (e)   expenditures under Category (4) until the Bank shall
have communicated to the Borrower and PDB its acceptance of evidence
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed on behalf
of the Borrower and PDB and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
PDB in accordance with its terms; and

      (f)   expenditures under Category (1) for goods:

            (i)   included in the following SITC groups or sub-
                  groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups
                  under future revisions to the SITC, as designated
                  by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

      Group       Sub-group               Description of Items

      112            --                   Alcoholic beverages

      121            --                   Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                          tobacco refuse

      122            --                   Tobacco, manufactured
                                          (whether or not containing
                                          tobacco substitutes)

      Group       Sub-group               Description of Items

      525           --                    Radioactive and associ-
                                          ated materials

      667           --                    Pearls, precious and
                                          semi-precious stones,
                                          unworked or worked

      718          718.1                  Nuclear reactors, and
                                          parts thereof, fuel
                                          elements (cartridges),
                                          non-irradiated for nuclear
                                          reactors

      897          897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver
                                          or platinum group metals
                                          (except watches and
                                          watch cases) and goldsm-
                                          iths’ or silversmiths’
                                          wares (in-cluding set
                                          gems)

      971           --                    Gold, non-monetary (ex-
                                          cluding gold ores and
                                          concentrates),
           (ii)   procured under contracts costing less than $25-
                  ,000 equivalent each,

          (iii)   supplied under a contract which any national or
                  international financing institution or agency



                  other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed
                  to finance, and

           (iv)   intended for a military or paramilitary purpose
                  or for luxury consumption.

4.    If the Implementation Agreement shall not have been entered
into by June 30, 1992, or such other date as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, then the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
Category (2) shall, at the request of the Borrower, be reallocated
to Category (1) for the purposes of Part A of the Project. Further,
if any amount of the Loan allocated to Category (2) is not used for
the Debt Reduction Plan, in accordance with the provisions of the
Implementation Agreement, the Bank shall, at the request of the
Borrower, reallocate such amount to Category (1) for the purposes of
Part A of the Project.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in accelerating
the privatization and restructuring of the Borrower’s economy and,
subject to the execution and effectiveness of the Implementation
Agreement, in implementing the Debt Reduction Plan.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      The financing of urgently needed imports required during the
execution of the Program.

Part B:

      The implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan.

Part C:

      The carrying out of a program to strengthen institutional
capabilities and prepare specific plans for the efficient
privatization and restructuring of state enterprises, comprising:
(1) the design and implementation of strategies further to develop
the organization, management and operations of the institutions
involved in such privatization and restructuring, including those of
the Borrower’s Ministry of Ownership Changes and Ministry of
Industry, the Polish Development Bank, the Industrial Development
Agency, the Foreign Investment Agency, the Anti-Monopoly Agency and
the relevant local government agencies; (2) the carrying out by the
institutions referred to in subpart (1) hereof of studies and other
activities to prepare and execute specific plans for the privati-
zation and restructuring of individual state enterprises; and (3)
the provision of technical assistance and equipment to the unit
referred to in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

Part D:

      The financing, through PDB, of specific development projects
to restructure the operations, upgrade and expand the facilities,
cover the permanent working capital requirements and strengthen the
organization, management and operations of enterprises.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule



                                         Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1

      beginning December 1, 1996
      through   December 1, 2007              11,665,000

On June 1, 2008                               11,705,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (ex-
                                     pressed as a percentage per
                                     annum) applicable to the
                                     Loan on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods to be financed under Category (1)

Part A:     Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

            "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;



      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

           (i)     a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

          (ii)     an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or

         (iii)     a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                   quired."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:

      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank;

      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and

      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.

Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

2.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

3.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 2 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

Section II. Procurement of Goods and Technical licenses under
            Categories (3) and (4)

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding



      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Section, goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two suppliers
from at least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Contracts and technical licenses which the Bank agrees are of
a proprietary nature, may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of either of the
Special Accounts A or B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of such Special Account A or B in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of either of the Special Accounts A or
B, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section III.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to  consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program



      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    The Program and Part A of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall continue to maintain, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, an inter-ministerial committee
with membership consisting of senior representatives of the
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Ownership Changes and
Ministry of Industry. Said committee shall be responsible for the
monitoring and coordination of the execution of the Program and for
the preparation of the guidelines referred to in paragraph 1 of Part
B of this Schedule.

2.    The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, and the Borrower shall, prior to each such
exchange of views, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonable request.

3.    In furtherance of the objectives of the Program, the Borrower
shall:

      (a)   develop, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments: (i) by September 30, 1991, guidelines for directors
representing the Borrower on the boards of joint-stock companies
which are fully or partially owned by the Borrower; and (ii) by
December 31, 1991, (A) a plan for the application of debt-equity
swaps in the privatization of individual state enterprises; (B) a
statement of policy on environmental contingent liabilities of new
owners of privatized state enterprises; (C) a policy of incentives
and other measures necessary to accelerate the commercialization of
state enterprises; (D) a plan for exercising the Borrower’s owner-
ship rights in state enterprises and for delegation of responsi-
bility for the management of such ownership rights; and (E) a
strategy for redefining the terms of reference and reorganizing the
Borrower’s Ministry of Industry in view of the evolving structure of
the Borrower’s industrial sector, and an implementation plan
therefor designed to ensure the implementation thereof by June 30,
1992; and

      (b)   finalize and thereafter implement the same, taking into
consideration the Bank’s views thereon.

4.    Without limitation on its other obligations under this
Agreement, the Borrower shall entrust the National Bank of Poland
with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications
for Part A of the Project and for the collection of the documents
and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.

B.    Part B of the Project

      The Borrower shall as soon as possible submit a debt reduction
plan to the Bank for its review. If, in the judgement of the Bank,
such plan meets the Bank’s requirements for Bank support of debt
reduction operations, the Borrower and the Bank shall seek to
conclude an implementation agreement for such plan as soon as
possible after the Bank has approved support therefor.

C.    Part C of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out Part C
of the Project in accordance with the guidelines prepared by the
inter-ministerial committee referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A of
this Schedule and agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.



2.    In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) continue to maintain, with
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a
technical assistance procurement unit within the Borrower’s Ministry
of Ownership Changes to be responsible for the coordination and
supervision of the procurement of the goods and services under PartC of the Project in 
accordance with the action plan and guidelines
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part; and (b) employ consultants
with qualification, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, to assist in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.

D.   Part D of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (4) to PDB under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PDB under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
which shall include those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.

2.    The Borrower shall: (a) cause PDB to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
PDB therein set forth, take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, permits, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PDB to perform
such obligations, and not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and (b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and
to accomplish the purpose of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

3.    The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect  of Part D of the Project
shall be carried out by PDB pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project
Agreement.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

                   Terms and Conditions of the
                     Subsidiary Loan Agreement
      The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of
paragraph 1 of Part D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be:

      (a)   the equivalent of the aggregate amount of principal of
all Sub-loans made to Beneficiaries either directly by PDB or
through the Participating Banks under Part D of the Project;

      (b)   denominated in dollars and Deutsche Mark, with the
portion thereof denominated in dollars being the sum total of the
Sub-loans denominated in dollars, and with the portion thereof
denominated in Deutsche Mark being the sum total of the Sub-loans
denominated in Deutsche Mark;

2.    The Portion of the Subsidiary Loan denominated in: (a) dollars
shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, interest, during each six-month
period commencing on June 1 and December 1 of each calendar year, at
a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin, as shall be calculated by the
Borrower on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
Deutsche Mark shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each
six-month period commencing on January 1 and July 1 of each calendar
year, at a rate equal to FIBOR, plus a margin, as shall be
calculated by the Borrower on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
the Bank.



3.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid to the Borrower over a
period of 17 years, inclusive of a grace period of five years.

4.    For the purposes hereof, the terms "Sub-loan", "Beneficiary"
and "Participating Bank" shall have the respective meanings assigned
to them in paragraphs (a), (d), and (b) of Section 1.01 of the
Project Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                     Special Accounts A and B

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means, in respect of the
Special Account A, Category (3), and, in respect of the Special
Account B, Category (4);

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the respective eligible
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
the Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000, and, in
respect of the Special Account B, an amount equivalent to
$15,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the said Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the said Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the said Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                  for deposits therein at such intervals as the
                  Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the said
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out thereof for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of each of the



Special Accounts A and B, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account A or the Special Account B:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals under the respective eligible Category should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the respective eligible Category, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures
to be financed thereunder shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the respective eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account A or the Special Account B: (i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the respective Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account A or the Special Account B.

     (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.