World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3310 ME

        (Decentralization and Regional Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                        Dated June 26, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3310 ME

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA,
S.N.C. (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Annual Operating Plan" means the annual operating plan
(plan operativo anual), of each Project State (as hereinafter
defined) referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of the Guarantee
Agreement;

      (b)   "CAPFCE" means the Guarantor’s Administrative Committee
for the Federal School Construction Program, Comite Administrador
del Programa Federal de Construccion de Escuelas;

      (c)   "CFE" means the Guarantor’s Federal Electricity
Commission, Comision Federal de Electricidad;

      (d)   "CNA" means the Guarantor’s National Water Commission,
Comision Nacional del Agua;

      (e)   "CUD" means the annual agreement (Convenio Unico de
Desarrollo) entered into between the Guarantor and a Project State
for each Fiscal Year (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) (iii) of the Guarantee Agreement;

      (f)   "Executing Agencies" means the Federal Entities (as
hereinafter defined), Project States (through the State Entities as
hereinafter defined) and Participating Municipalities (as herein-
after defined), and "Executing Agency" means any one of such
entities;

      (g)   "Federal Decentralization Program" means the Guarantor’s
program of actions and timetables therefor designed to further its
process of administrative decentralization in each of the Project
States as such program is described in the policy letter addressed
to the Bank, dated February 27, 1991 and signed by SPP, and
including actions in the agricultural and roads sectors as described
in the SARH matrix presented to SPP by letter dated January 31, 1991
and the SCT matrix presented to SPP by letter dated October 4, 1990
(which matrices were subsequently presented to the Bank);

      (h)   "Federal Entity" means any of the departments, agencies
or entities within the Guarantor’s federal public administration,
centralized and decentralized (paraestatal), which departments,
agencies or entities participate in the execution of the Project and
include the following: SEDUE, SARH, CFE, CAPFCE, CNA, INAH, SPP, INI
and SCT and "Federal Entities" means collectively all such entities;

      (i)   "Federal Project Unit" means the special coordinating
group established by the Guarantor within SPP (as hereinafter
defined) for purposes of assisting in the coordination and implemen-
tation of the Project;

      (j)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Guarantor,
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year;

      (k)   "INAH" means the Guarantor’s National Institute of
Anthropology and History, Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e



Historia;

      (l)   "INI" means the Guarantor’s National Indigenous
Institute, Instituto Nacional Indigenista;

      (m)   "Investment Subproject" means a project consisting of
investments in works, and/or goods and/or services, and which
project is: (i) described in Part A of the Project and included in
the budgetary line items (Aperturas Programaticas) 3F, EA, FD, EK,
EU, 5F and EC/D referred to in the PNS Manual (as hereinafter
defined); (ii) selected and appraised in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; (iii) included in an Annual Operating Plan approved by the
Bank; and (iv) carried out in the Project Area (as hereinafter
defined);

      (n)   "Item" means any of the seven subparts under Part A of
the Project, namely: Agricultural Promotion and Extension; Irriga-
tion; Agroindustry; Education; Rural Roads; Water Supply and
Sanitation; and Rural Electrification;

      (o)   "Lacandona Protection Plan" means a plan, set forth in
a document presented to the Bank on December 14, 1990, entitled
Programa de Conservacion de la Selva Lacandona, detailing a program
of actions, objectives and policies to be implemented according to
a specified timetable, by the Guarantor and the State of Chiapas,
for the purpose of protecting the environmental integrity of the
Selva Lacandona region in the State of Chiapas, which region
includes the Montes Azules Reserve Area (as hereinafter defined);

      (p)   "large road" means any road classified as Type A, B, C
or D (Tipo de Carreteras A, B, C or D) under SCT’s Normas de
Servicios Tecnicos, Libro 2, Parte 2.01 Proyecto Geometrico, Titulo
2.01.01 Carreteras (Tabla 002-1) dated 1984;

      (q)   "Local Solidarity Committee" means Comite Local de
Solidaridad, a local community association which: (i) participates
in the execution of an Investment Subproject to be carried out by a
Participating Municipality (as hereinafter defined) through a
Municipal Solidarity Fund (as hereinafter defined); and (ii) has
entered into a contract (Convenio) with such Participating Municipa-
lity (as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the MSF Operational
Directive (as hereinafter defined) and "Local Solidarity Committees"
means collectively all such associations;

      (r)   "Monitoring and Evaluation System" means a system,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be established by the Guarantor,
through SPP (as hereinafter defined), for the monitoring and
evaluation of the Project at the federal, state and local level;

      (s)   "Montes Azules Reserve Area" means the area described in
Article 2 of the presidential decree appearing on pages 6-8 of the
Guarantor’s Diario Oficial for January 12, 1978;

      (t)   "MSF Operational Directive" means the 1991 operational
directive for the Project States and Participating Municipalities,
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by SPP and setting forth the
policies, rules and procedures regarding the execution of Investment
Subprojects through Municipal Solidarity Funds (as hereinafter
defined) by Participating Municipalities (as hereinafter defined),
as such operational directive may be amended annually or from time
to time;

      (u)   "Municipal Solidarity Fund" means a Fondo Municipal de
Solidaridad, a revolving fund established by the Guarantor, through
SPP, a Project State and a Participating Municipality therein
through a Municipal Solidarity Fund Agreement (as hereinafter
defined) for purposes of financing Investment Subprojects to be
undertaken by such Participating Municipality (as hereinafter
defined);

      (v)   "Municipal Solidarity Fund Agreement" means the annual
agreement to be entered into between the Guarantor, through SPP, a



Project State and Participating Municipality therein in accordance
with Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement, and "Munici-
pal Solidarity Fund Agreements" means collectively all such
agreements;

      (w)   "Operational Guidelines" means the rules and procedures
for the appraisal and selection of Investment Subprojects, excluding
those investment subprojects carried out by a Participating
Municipality through a Municipal Solidarity Fund, as such rules and
procedures are described in the SPP’s annex to the PNS Manual
entitled Guias para la Elaboracion de Expedientes Tecnicos
Simplificados dated March 1990;

      (x)   "Participating Municipality" means any municipality
(including its agencies and entities owned or controlled by such
municipality) in a Project State (as hereinafter defined) par-
ticipating in the execution of the Project and such term shall
include any agency or entity which may be established by the
respective Participating Municipality as a result of the implementa-
tion of the Program;

      (y)   "Participation Agreements" means collectively the
Project State Agreements and Municipal Solidarity Fund Agreements
and "Participation Agreement" means any of such agreements;

      (z)   "PNS" means the Guarantor’s National Solidarity Program,
Programa Nacional de Solidaridad;

      (aa)  "PNS Manual" means the 1991 operational manual for the
Project States (Manual Unico de Operacion), satisfactory to the
Bank, adopted by SPP (as hereinafter defined) and setting forth,
among other matters, the operational policies, procedures and rules
regarding the execution of Investment Subprojects, excluding
Investment Subprojects to be carried out by Participating Municipa-
lities through a Municipal Solidarity Fund, as such operational
manual may be amended annually or from time to time in agreement
with the Bank and such operational manual includes the Operational
Guidelines and all of its other annexes;

      (bb)  "poverty alleviation indicators" means the sectoral and
regional annual indicators reflecting the poverty alleviation
objectives of the Project for each Project State, as such indicators
are described in the letter signed by the Bank and the Guarantor of
even date herewith;

      (cc)  "Program" means collectively the Federal Decentraliza-
tion Program and each Project State Program;

      (dd)  "Project Area" means the territories of all the Project
States;

      (ee)  "Project State Agreement" means the annual agreement
(referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i) of the Guarantee Agreement)
entered into between the Guarantor and a Project State for each
Fiscal Year in connection with the CUD that is in effect for that
Project State, and "Project State Agreements" means collectively all
such agreements;

      (ff)  "Project State Program" means any of the programs of
actions regarding decentralization, revenue-sharing and tax
collection contained in each Project State Agreement;

      (gg)  "Project States" means the states of Chiapas, Guerrero,
Hidalgo and Oaxaca located within the territory of the Guarantor and
"Project State" means any of such states;

      (hh)  "Regional Planning Center" means each of the SPP
regional offices (residencias) located in the following regions
within each Project State: 1. State of Guerrero: Cd. Altamirano,
Iguala, Chilpancingo, Tlapa, Atoyac, Sn. Marcos and Acapulco; 2.
State of Hidalgo: Pachuca, Tulancingo, Tula, Huichapan, Jacala,
Mextitlan and Huejutla; 3. State of Oaxaca: Teotitlan de Flores



Magon, Pinotepa Nacional, Tehuantepec, Huajuapan de Leon, Guelatao,
Miahuatlan de Porfirio Diaz, Tuxtepec and Oaxaca; and 4. State of
Chiapas: Tuxtla Gutierrez, San Cristobal de las Casas, Comitan de
Dominguez, Villa Flores, Pichucalco, Palenque, Motozintla, Tapachula
and Tonala and "Regional Planning Centers" means collectively all
such SPP regional offices;

      (ii)  "SARH" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat of Agriculture
and Water Resources, Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos;

      (jj)  "SCT" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat of Communica-
tions and Transportation, Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Transportes;

      (kk)  "SECOGEF" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat of the
Comptroller General of the Federation, Secretaria de la Contraloria
General de la Federacion;

      (ll)  "SEDUE" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat of Urban
Development and Ecology, Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia;

      (mm)  "Selva Lacandona Region" means the region to which the
Lacandona Protection Plan applies;

      (nn)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (oo)  "SPP" means the Guarantor’s Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting, Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto;

      (pp)  "SPP Monitoring and Evaluation Unit" means the unit
established within the Federal Project Unit in accordance with the
Monitoring and Evaluation System for purposes of monitoring and
evaluating the implementation of the Project;

      (qq)  "State Entities" means each Project State’s agencies and
entities owned or controlled by the respective Project State and
such term shall also include any agency or entity which may be
established by the respective Project State as a result of the
implementation of the Program;

      (rr)  "State Project Unit" means the special coordinating
group established by each Project State for purposes of assisting in
the coordination and implementation of the Project;

      (ss)  "Type A Investment Subproject" means an investment
subproject with an estimated cost of less than $25,000 equivalent;

      (tt)  "Type B Investment Subproject" means an investment
subproject with an estimated cost of $25,000 equivalent or more, up
to and including $200,000 equivalent; and

      (uu)  "Type C Investment Subproject" means an investment
subproject with an estimated cost of more than $200,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred and fifty million dollars
($350,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works,



goods, and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

       (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
             months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) o
f
             this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of



            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) "Quarter" means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, provid-
ing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of the Project; and (ii)
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the
Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultant’s services required for
the Project and to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and accounts for the Special Account
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have such separate records and accounts referred
                   to in paragraph (a) for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with generally accepted
                   auditing standards and procedures consistently
                   applied, by independent and qualified auditors;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified
                   statements of the Special Account; and

            (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts as well as
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
            from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
            expenditure, the Borrower shall:



            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   separate records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, or cause to be retained, until at least
                   one year after the Bank has received the audit
                   report for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                   of the Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
                   tures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such separate records and accounts
                   are included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   that any Project State shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under its respective Project State Agreement or
to comply with the terms of the PNS Manual. In such a case, the Bank
may, after consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and
Guarantor, only suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures
incurred by the Project State in question. At the request of the
Borrower and the Guarantor, the Bank may reallocate Loan proceeds
subject to such suspension to Project States which are in compliance
with their Project State Agreements and with the terms of the PNS
Manual;

      (b)   that any Participating Municipality shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under its respective Municipal
Solidarity Fund Agreement.  In such a case, the Bank may, after
consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred by the
Participating Municipality in question. At the request of the
Borrower and the Guarantor, the Bank may reallocate Loan proceeds
subject to such suspension to Participating Municipalities which are
in compliance with their Municipal Solidarity Fund Agreements;

      (c)   the Federal Decentralization Program or any part thereof
shall have not been implemented or any situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that such program, or any part thereof,
will be implemented;

      (d)   any situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that a Project State Program, or any part thereof, shall be
implemented;

      (e)   that the Guarantor or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action which may materially and
adversely affect the implementation of the Project or any Part
thereof; and

      (f)   that the Bank, the Guarantor and the State of Chiapas



have failed to reach an agreement in respect of any of the annual
operational programs for the execution of the Lacandona Protection
Plan referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of the Guarantee Agree-
ment. In such a case, suspension may be limited to the State of
Chiapas, and reallocation allowed, just as under Section 5.01 (a) of
this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   that the suspension referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of
this Agreement shall have been in effect for all Project States
simultaneously for a continuous period of 90 days;

      (b)   that the suspension referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of
this Agreement shall have been in effect for 85 Participating
Municipalities simultaneously for a continuous period of 90 days;
and

      (c)   any of the events specified in Section 5.01 (c), (e) or
(f) of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have entered
into the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement;

      (b)   that the Guarantor and each of the Project States shall
have entered into a CUD and a Project State Agreement which are
formally in effect (or deemed to be in effect for purposes of this
Project as set forth in Section 3.02 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement)
as of the Effective Date;

      (c)   that the Monitoring and Evaluation System shall have
been established and made operational by the Guarantor, through SPP,
in a manner and under conditions satisfactory to the Bank;

      (d)   that the Guarantor, through SECOGEF, has prepared terms
of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for audits for the Project
States and Participating Municipalities;

      (e)   that the Guarantor has employed consultants for
assisting in the implementation of Part D of the Project and of the
Monitoring and Evaluation System; and

      (f)   that the Guarantor shall have submitted to the Bank the
first annual programs of institutional development, satisfactory to
the Bank, in respect of each Project State.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that each Project State Agreement, as well as the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Guarantor and are legally binding
upon the Guarantor in accordance with their terms;

      (b)   that the respective Project State Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Project State in question and is legally binding upon the
respective Project State, in accordance with its terms; and



      (c)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and are legally
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date September 26, 1991 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre Sur, piso 11
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                   Mexico City               Mexico City

                                           Fax:  548-5191

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day
and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                         NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.



                         By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villareal
                                           Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  Works, goods,           224,000,000        50%
     construction
     materials
     (other than those
     covered by Cate-
     gories (3) and (4)
     below) and
     services under
     Part A of the
     Project

(2)  Works, goods and         35,000,000        100%
     services under
     Parts B and C
     of the Project

(3)  Construction             40,000,000         50%
     materials
     acquired by direct
     purchasing
     under Part A
     of the Project

(4)  Goods acquired by        10,000,000        50%
     direct purchasing
     under Part A of
     the Project

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5)   Construction               8,000,000      100%
      materials under
      Parts B and C of the
      Project

(6)   Goods and                 18,000,000      100%
      services under
      Part D of the
      Project

(7)   Unallocated               15,000,000
                               ___________

         TOTAL                 350,000,000
                               ===========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $35,000,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures within twelve months before that date but in
no case before May 1, 1990, provided that such withdrawals be



submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the Loan
Agreement becomes effective;

      (b)   for expenditures incurred for labor in respect of civil
works carried out through force account or direct contracting;

      (c)   in respect of expenditures incurred in a Project State
during 1991, 1992 and 1993 for Type B Investment Subprojects, unless
the Bank has received for each respective year copies of the
appraisal reports, satisfactory to the Bank, of, at least, two Type
B Investment Subprojects covering two Items in such particular
Project State (for a total of two Type B Investment Subprojects per
Project State). The combination of all Type B Investment Subprojects
presented for purposes of this subparagraph per year must involve at
least two Type B Investment Subprojects per Item;

       (d)   in respect of expenditures incurred in a Project State
during 1991, 1992 and 1993 for Type C Investment Subprojects, unless
the Bank has received for each respective year copies of the
appraisal reports, satisfactory to the Bank, of, at least, two
Type C Investment Subprojects covering two Items in such particular
Project State (for a total of two Type C Investment Subprojects per
Project State). The combination of all Type C Investment Subprojects
presented for purposes of this subparagraph per year must involve at
least two Type C Investment Subprojects per Item;

      (e)   in respect of expenditures incurred by a Project State
or Participating Municipality therein unless a legally valid CUD and
Project State Agreement have been entered into (or are deemed to be
in effect as set forth in Section 3.02 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement) for the date on which such expenditures were incurred;
and

      (f)   in respect of expenditures for any activity or invest-
ment under Part C.4 of the Project unless such activity or invest-
ment is included in an annual operational program approved by the
Bank pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      This Project is part of the PNS and its overall objective is
to increase the access of poor and indigenous inhabitants in the
Project States to basic infrastructure, social services, markets and
technologies. Other specific objectives of the Project are to: (a)
assist the Project States in developing, executing and financing
investment programs with a strong poverty alleviation focus; (b)
assist the federal and state planning and budgeting ministries in
improving their efficiency in the selection, environmental assess-
ment, monitoring and evaluation of projects and increasing financing
flexibility; and (c) strengthen the decentralized state and
municipal entities to identify, prepare, build, operate and maintain
their investments in a more participatory manner.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Investment Subprojects

      Carrying out by the Executing Agencies of investment sub-
projects in the following areas:

1.    Agricultural Promotion and Extension. Agricultural promotion
and extension including forestation, plant nursery, soil conserva-
tion, watershed protection, drainage, horticulture, animal hus-
bandry, plant and animal disease control and coffee plantation
rehabilitation.

2.    Irrigation. Construction and rehabilitation of small-scale
irrigation schemes.



3.    Agroindustry. Processing of fruits, vegetables, and fisheries
and animal produce.

4.    Education. Construction and rehabilitation of public primary
and secondary schools.

5.    Rural Roads. Construction, rehabilitation, modernization and
extension of rural, state feeder roads and bridges; and maintenance
of such roads. Roads and bridges in the Montes Azules Reserve Area
are excluded.

6.    Water Supply and Sanitation. Construction and rehabilitation
of water supply, drainage and sewerage systems and extension of
water supply, drainage and sewerage systems.

7.    Rural Electrification. Construction of electricity supply
networks and transmission lines, and installation of transmission
lines and connection of rural communities to the electricity supply
network.

Part B:     Cultural Site Restoration

      Carrying out the following activities by INI and INAH:

1.    Restoration of archaeological sites selected by INAH in the
Project Area.

2.    Preparation of an inventory of archaeological sites located in
the States of Chiapas and Oaxaca.

Part C:     Environmental Protection

1.    Assistance in the implementation of environmental screening
and assessment measures related to the Project including: (a) the
provision of technical assistance to SEDUE and environmental
agencies of the Project States; and (b) the carrying out of studies
to define environmental strategies in key areas and subsectors such
as local or regional master plans for water supply, drainage,
sanitation, micro or macro zoning plans, management of forest
resources and protection of watersheds.

2.    A program to consolidate the system of protected areas in each
Project State through a set of actions including: (a) field level
demarcation and land tenure regularization programs; (b) establish-
ment and implementation of management plans; and (c) carrying out of
related studies.

3.    Technical assistance for purposes of consolidating federal and
state legislation in environmental related areas, such assistance to
include training programs and studies.

4.    A program to protect the environmental integrity of the Selva
Lacandona Region in the State of Chiapas.

5.    Strengthening of the institutional capacity of SEDUE dele-
gations in the Project States and of environmental agencies of the
Project States and municipalities therein, such assistance to
include training, acquisition of materials and equipment and
consultants’ services.

Part D:     Institutional Strengthening

      Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Guarantor,
Project States and municipalities therein for the implementation of
the Project and the Program, through acquisition of materials and
equipment, training and consultants’ services.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.



                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

On each May 15 and November 15

      beginning November 15, 1996
      through November 15, 2007                14,585,000

On May 15, 2008                                14,545,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than 3 years                      0.18
      before maturity

More than 3 years but                      0.35
      not more than 6 years
      before maturity

More than 6 years but                      0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    All procurement of civil works, materials and equipment,
whether or not under international competitive bidding procedures,
shall take place using standard bidding documents which are
satisfactory to the Bank.



Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mexico may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$5,000,000 equivalent and more than $150,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.

2.    Contracts for goods, estimated to cost more than $50,000
equivalent but less than $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for goods, estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or
less and contracts for works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent
or less, not to exceed an aggregate amount of $20,000,000 equivalent
for goods and $100,000,000 equivalent for works, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

4.    Contracts for goods, estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or
less, and contracts for construction materials, estimated to cost
$15,000 equivalent or less, not to exceed an aggregate amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 for such goods and $80,000,000 for such
construction materials, may be acquired by means of direct purchas-ing by 
Participating Municipalities using their Municipal Solidarity
Funds. In no case shall more than $5,000 equivalent of goods and
$15,000 equivalent of construction materials be acquired through
direct purchasing for any particular Investment Subproject.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) the first three contracts in each
Project State for civil works procured under the procedures referred
to in Part C.1 of this Schedule; (ii) each contract for civil works
estimated to cost over $2,500,000 equivalent and procured under the
procedures referred to in Part C.1 of this Schedule; (iii) the first
three contracts in each Project State for goods procured under the
procedures referred to in Part C.2 of this Schedule; and (iv) each
contract for civil works estimated to cost over $5,000,000
equivalent and each contract for goods estimated to cost $250,000
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished



pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Guarantor and the Project States in
carrying out the Project, the Guarantor and the Project States shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means any of the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $35,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule. The Borrower shall make withdrawals from the Special
Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis of the
evidence that the Bank shall have reasonably determined and shall
debit the Special Account with the amount in dollars so withdrawn or
with the Dollar equivalent of the currency other than dollars in
which the payment was made, determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the dollar and such currency in effect: (i) on the
date of each payment if the withdrawal from the Special Account in
respect of such payment has been made within 90 days of the date of
such payment; or (ii) on the date each withdrawal shall have been
made.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.



           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.     (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special



Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.