World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3361 YU

        (Kolubara B Thermal Power and Lignite Mine Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                     ELEKTROPRIVREDA OF SERBIA

                     Dated September 12, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3361 YU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
ELEKTROPRIVREDA OF SERBIA (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the
Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Agreement with Serbia) of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Republic of Serbia (Serbia),
Serbia has agreed to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in the Agreement with Serbia;

      (C)   by an agreement (the EP(S) Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Electricity Generation Company of
Serbia (EP(S)), EP(S) has agreed to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in the EP(S) Agreement;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (D)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan;

      (E)   on the basis of Article 11 of the Electricity Act
(Official Gazette of Serbia No. 59/89) (the Electricity Act of
Serbia), Article 141 of the statutes of the Borrower and Article 37
of the statutes of EP(S), the Borrower and EP(S) have entered into
an agreement (the Transfer Agreement) dated August 16, 1990,
pursuant to which the Borrower has agreed to construct the Kolubara
B thermal power plant and Tamnava West Mine and, following comple-
tion of construction of said facilities, to transfer said facilities
to EP(S) for their operation and maintenance; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                            ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Statutes of the Borrower" means the statutes of the
Borrower adopted by the Borrower on May 28, 1990; and

      (b)   "Statutes of EP(S)" means the statutes of EP(S) adopted
by EP(S) on June 12, 1990.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a



commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      (c)   On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest



            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Following completion of construction of the
facilities under Parts A and B under the Project, the Borrower
shall, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Transfer
Agreement, transfer said facilities to EP(S) for their operation and
maintenance.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out, on the basis of
terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, an
action plan for the rehabilitation of the power plants in Serbia.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   complete a study of load characteristics of end-users
and, by January 31, 1992, furnish to the Bank for review and comment
the findings and recommendations of said study; and

      (b)   on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and the results of the study referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, promptly initiate the cost of service study included
in Part D (3) of the Project, and, promptly upon the completion of
said study, furnish to the Bank for review and comment, the findings
and recommendations thereof.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out, on the basis of terms of reference and a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank, the study included in Part D (4)
of the Project on the long-term mining development plan for the
power plant at Kolubara; and

      (b)   prior to initiating any works for the expansion of the
facilities constructed under the Project or the development or
expansion of any other mines to supply the Kolubara B thermal power
plant, furnish to the Bank for review and comment the findings and
recommendations of said study.



      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out, on the basis of
terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, the
long-term program of regional air quality monitoring included in
Part D (5) of the Project and, thereafter, take all measures
necessary to ensure compliance with emission quality standards of
Serbia.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   by June 30, 1992, carry out, on the basis of terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, the study included in Part D (2)
of the Project to identify the measures necessary to improve its
accounting and financial management system and furnish to the Bank
for review and comment the findings and recommendations of said
study; and

      (b)   thereafter, put into effect, in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank, the recommendations agreed with
the Bank for improving its accounting and financial management
system.

      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by October 31 of each year,
beginning with its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, furnish
to the Bank for review and comment its proposed investment program,
together with the associated financing plan, for each of the
Borrower’s 1992 through 1996 fiscal years.

      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   beginning with the fiscal year commencing on January 1,
1993, furnish to the Bank for review and comment, by November 30 of
each year, the proposed agreement with EP(S) for the allocation to
the Borrower and EP(S) of revenues received by the Borrower and
EP(S) from their respective operations, for each of its 1992 through
1996 fiscal years; and

      (b)   thereafter, enter into said proposed agreement for the
respective year, taking into consideration the Bank’s comments
thereon.

      Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, together with EP(S) in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the EP(S)
Agreement:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of the on-going study on under-
ground mines in Serbia being carried out by the Belgrade Mining
Institute and the Belgrade Institute for Economic Efficiency, an
action program for restructuring said underground mines; and

       (b)  by March 31, 1992, furnish to the Bank for review and
comment the findings and recommendations of said study, together
with the proposed action program.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the



Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                Financial Covenants of the Borrower

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by an independent auditing organization
                   acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than five months after the
                   end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts, and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representative to examine such
                   records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, a ratio of total operating
cash expenses to total operating cash revenues not higher than .95.

      (b)   Before January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 in
each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank,



review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its
completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) by 5% or more for
either of the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "total operating cash expenses" means
                   all cash expenses related to operations,
                   including salaries, wages and other
                   renumeration, administration, maintenance, but
                   excluding interest and other charges on debt.

            (ii)   The term "total operating cash revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, a ratio of total operating
expenses and debt service to total revenues not higher than .97.

      (b)   Before January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 in
each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its
completion.

      (c)   If any such reviews shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) by 5% or more for
either of the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
rates) in order to meet such requirement.

      (d)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                   operating revenues and net non-operating income.

            (ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                   revenues from all sources related to operations.

            (iii)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (a) above.

            (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, and adequate
                   provision for depreciation of the average
                   current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed
                   assets in operation, on a basis acceptable to
                   the Bank, but excluding interest and other
                   charges on debt.

            (v)    The average current gross value of the



                   Borrower’s fixed assets in operation shall be
                   calculated as one half of the sum of the gross
                   value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in
                   operation at the beginning and at the end of the
                   fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
                   accordance with sound and consistently
                   maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                   the Bank.

            (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

            (vii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the average
collection period for electricity sold does not exceed sixty (60)
days in the 1992 and 1993 calendar year, forty-five (45) days in the
1994 calendar year and thirty (30) days in each succeeding calendar
year.

      (b)   With respect to any customer account which is outstand-
ing longer than the time period specified in paragraph (a) hereof,
the Borrower shall:

            (i)    take all measures necessary, including legal
                   action, to ensure collection of all revenues
                   due;

           (ii)    make appropriate provisions in its accounts for
                   doubtful debts; and

          (iii)    give notice to the customer of the Borrower’s
                   intention to disconnect electricity service if
                   payment is not received within thirty (30) days
                   of the date of such notice.

      (c)   With respect to electricity purchased by the Borrower,
the Borrower shall pay the account within sixty (60) days of the due
date in the 1992 and 1993 calendar years, within forty-five (45)
days of the due date in the 1994 calendar year and within thirty
(30) days of the due date thereafter.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   EP(S) shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the EP(S) Agreement;

      (b)   Serbia shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Serbia Agreement; and

      (c)   the Electricity Act of Serbia or the Statutes of the
Borrower or the Statutes of EP(S) or the Transfer Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated so as to
affect substantially and materially the Borrower’s ability to carry
out any of its obligations under this Agreement or EP(S)’s ability
to carry out any of its obligations under the EP(S) Agreement or



Serbia’s ability to carry out any of its obligations under the
Agreement with Serbia.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   the events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)  that the EP(S) Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EP(S), and is legally binding upon EP(S) in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Agreement with Serbia has been duly authorized
or ratified by Serbia, and is legally binding upon Serbia in
accordance with its terms.

      Section 7.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Elektroprivreda of Serbia
            Carice Milice 2
            Belgrade
            Yugoslavia

            Telefax:                       Telex:

                   011/629-489                11281



      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                   ELEKTROPRIVREDA OF SERBIA

                   By /s/ D. Mujezinovic
                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Equipment                152,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2) Civil works                4,600,000        100%

(3) Equipment                 40,400,000        92%
    erection works

(4) Consultants’               4,000,000        100%
    services and
    training

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5) Interest and              60,600,000        Amounts due pur-
    other charges                               suant to Section
    on the Loan                                 2.02 (c) of this
    accrued on                                  Agreement
    or before
    January 15,
    1997



(6) Unallocated               38,000,000
                              __________

    TOTAL                    300,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) meet the growth in
demand for electricity in Serbia, including its supplies to other
Republics of the Guarantor; (ii) facilitate rehabilitation of aging
thermal generating units in Serbia; (iii) introduce a systematic
air-quality monitoring and study program in the Kolubara area; and
(iv) improve the financial performance of the Borrower and EP(S) and
strengthen their capacities in financial management and accounting.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Construction of a 7.0 million ton per year lignite mine at
Tamnava West in Serbia.

Part B:

      Construction of a 700 MW (2 x 350 MW) mine-head thermal power
plant and auxiliary facilities at Kolubara B site located at the
north end of Tamnava West mine field.

Part C:

      Maintenance and rehabilitation of thermal power plants in
Serbia.

Part D:

(1)   Carrying out a power plant rehabilitation program in Serbia
      for the 1991 through 1999 period.

(2)   Strengthening the financial management and accounting systems
      of the Borrower and EP(S).

(3)   Carrying out a cost of service studies for purposes of
      determining and monitoring tariff levels.

(4)   Carrying out a long-term mining development plan for the
      Kolubara area.

(5)   Adoption of a long-term regional air quality monitoring
      program.

                           *     *     *



      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning January 15, 1997
      through July 15, 2006                15,000,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be required to
register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the
event that registration shall be required after a foreign contractor
or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded a contract,
the Borrower shall facilitate the registration.



3.    Each contract for goods and works shall include a provision
that the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to enable
contractors and suppliers to import equipment and materials and
specialized manpower as required to carry out their services.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Specialized equipment, such as laboratory instruments,
measuring and testing apparatus for water treatment and environ-
mental monitoring and spare parts, with the Bank’s prior approval of
a list thereof, for power plants rehabilitation under Part D (1) of
the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6 million,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Contracts for spare parts which are needed for existing
equipment for power plants rehabilitation, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $1,500,000, may, with the Bank’s prior approval of a
list thereof, be awarded after direct negotiations with the original
suppliers of the equipment, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ management, financial and
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such



consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.



5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.