World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3354 EGT

                     (Gas Investment Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

              EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION

                     Dated September 26, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3354 EGT

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EGYPTIAN
GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Arab Republic of Egypt (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in the amount of twenty-
five million European Currency Units (ECU 25,000,000) to assist in
financing Part A of the Project, on terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



the Borrower and EIB;

      (D)   Parts A and C of the Project will be carried out by the
Petroleum Gas Company (PETROGAS) a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Borrower with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PETROGAS a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "PETROGAS" means the Petroleum Gas Company, a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant
to Law No. 97 of the year 1983 of the Guarantor, as amended, or any
law successor thereto;

      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PETROGAS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PETROGAS pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan lent to
PETROGAS under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (d)   "Subsidiaries" means any companies or entities of which
a majority shareholding of the outstanding voting or other pro-
prietary interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, by
the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or
by the Borrower and one or more of the subsidiaries; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty-four million dollars ($84,000,000), being the



sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National
Bank of Egypt on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent



            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and
natural gas development practices, and shall provide or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part B of the Project.

      (b)   Without any limitations or restriction upon the
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the
Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause PETROGAS to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of PETROGAS therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable PETROGAS to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.

      (c)   The Borrower shall relend to PETROGAS the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to Parts A and C of the Project
under Categories (1) (a) and (2) of the table set forth in Schedule
1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PETROGAS, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include the
following principal terms and conditions: (i) the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by PETROGAS shall be the equivalent
in Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the date or respective dates of
repayment) of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account on account of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) the
Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by PETROGAS in accordance with an
amortization schedule identical to that applicable to the Loan
pursuant to Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iii) PETROGAS shall pay
to the Borrower interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan withdrawn and outstanding at the rate applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and
(iv) PETROGAS shall repay to the Borrower all amounts paid by the
Borrower to the Bank in respect of the commitment charges on the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan



Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Part B of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C of
the Project and to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and C of
the Project shall be carried out by PETROGAS pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Guarantor and the Bank quarterly reports on progress in the carrying
out of the Project.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the
construction of facilities under Part B of the Project shall be
undertaken in accordance with environmental standards satisfactory
to the Guarantor and the Bank; and (b) include in the progress
reports referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement all informa-
tion regarding adherence to such standards.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall build, simultaneously with
the construction of Part B of the Project, a facility in the
existing Ras Shokeir Pipeline to enable transfer of gas produced
from the facilities to be installed under said Part B of the Project
to the national grid.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall (a) carry out, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, by the dates specified below, for its review and comments,
the findings and recommendations of the following studies:

            (i)    a study of the economics of secondary conversion
                   in the refinery subsector, by December 31, 1993;

           (ii)    a study of the expansion of gas delivery from
                   the Gulf of Suez gas fields, by December 31,
                   1993; and

          (iii)    a study of the cost of gas distribution, by
                   December 31, 1992; and

      (b)   thereafter, take all feasible action required to
implement the recommendations of said studies, taking into account
the Bank’s comments thereon.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and natural gas industry practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and natural gas development and distribution practices.



      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take all
such action within its powers to maintain its corporate existence
and right to carry on its operations, and take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business and for the execution of the Project.

      (b)   Except in the normal course of its business, the
Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its properties or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business and undertaking so as to, in the
opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are



                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur, and shall not permit any of its
Subsidiaries to incur, any debt, unless the net revenues of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower and its Sub-
sidiaries, including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower and its Subsidiaries maturing by its
                   terms more than one year after the date on which
                   it is originally incurred.

           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.

          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations adjusted to take
                         account of the Borrower’s and its Sub-
                         sidiaries’ prices in effect at the time of
                         the incurrence of debt even though they
                         were not in effect during the twelve-month
                         period to which such revenues relate and
                         net non-operating income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.

           (iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

           (vi)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it



                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified namely,
that:

      (a)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the EIB Loan shall have been
                         suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                         the EBI Loan Agreement; and

                   (B)   the EIB Loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         therefor;

         (ii)      subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that:

                   (A)   such suspension, cancellation or termina-
                         tion is not caused by the failure of the
                         Borrower to perform any of its obli-
                         gations under the EIB Loan Agreement; and

                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                         available to the Borrower from other
                         sources on terms and conditions consistent
                         with the obligations of the Borrower under
                         this Agreement.

      (b)   PETROGAS shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PETROGAS will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   Law No. 20 of the year 1976 establishing the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the operations or
financial condition of the Borrower.

      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PETROGAS or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   that the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (ii) of that Section;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and



      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and
PETROGAS.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the EIB Loan Agreement has been concluded between the
Borrower and EIB and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
thereof (except for the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement) have
been fulfilled;

      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PETROGAS; and

      (c)   the revised contract between PETROGAS and Egyptgas
referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement has been
executed on behalf of PETROGAS and Egyptgas and is binding upon both
parties.

      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PETROGAS and is legally binding upon PETROGAS in
accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PETROGAS and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PETROGAS in accordance with its terms.

      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation



            Palestine Street, Part 4
            El-Maadi El-Gedida
            Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   PETMISR                   92049 UN
                   Cairo

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                   EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION

                   By /s/ Erfan Shafey
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) (a)  Equipment and       48,000,000)
         materials under               )
         Part A of the                 )        100% of foreign
         Project                       )        expenditures
                                       )        100% of local
    (b)  Equipment and       34,000,000)        expenditures (ex-
         materials under               )        factory cost)
         Parts B and C                 )
         of the Project                )

(2) Technical                  1,000,000        100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training under
    Parts A and C
    of the Project

(3) Unallocated                1,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                84,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:



      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (1) (a) and (2) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after December 15, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (a) promoting
the efficient development and utilization of gas resources through
increasing the delivery of natural gas in the Greater Cairo area to
about 240,000 new customers; (b) sub- stituting gas for higher value
tradeable petroleum products to increase export potential; (c)
improving the air quality in the Greater Cairo area by decreasing
the output of carbon dioxide; and (d) expanding PETROGAS’ sales to
commercial and industrial establishments and improving the
efficiency of its operations.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Greater Cairo Gas Distribution Expansion

      (1)   Construction of approximately 30 kilometers (km) of
            large diameter, high pressure steel mains.

      (2)   Construction of medium and low pressure polyethylene
            piping network of approximately 900 km.

      (3)   Installation of one pressure reducing station.

      (4)   Installation of approximately 55 regulating stations.

      (5)   Construction and installation of service connections,
            metering, carcassing and burner conversion equipment to
            supply natural gas to approximately additional 235,000
            residential, 5,000 commercial and 22 industrial
            consumers.

Part B:     Transgulf Gas Transmission Expansion

      (1)   Construction and installation of an offshore platform
            template with connection facilities to the existing
            October Production Platform in the Gulf of Suez.

      (2)   Modification of topside facilities on the October
            Production Platform, including installation of two gas
            compressor units with associated facilities, utilities
            and infrastructure.

      (3)   Construction of a 12 km extension to an existing 12-inch
            diameter pipeline to link the October Production
            Platform with the existing 30-inch diameter Sinai gas
            pipeline.

      (4)   Installation of new gas compression facilities at the
            Beylim gas fields in Sinai.

      (5)   Installation of gas processing facilities at the Ras



            Bakr plant, including two gas compressor units,
            refrigeration and dehydration facilities.

Part C:     Technical Services and Training.

      Training of PETROGAS’ staff, re-equipping of its training
facilities and technical services for it in the areas of com-
puterization of customer services, planning, engineering, operation
of emergency centers and of management information systems.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

October 1, 1996                           1,530,000
April 1, 1997                             1,590,000
October 1, 1997                           1,655,000
April 1, 1998                             1,715,000
October 1, 1998                           1,785,000
April 1, 1999                             1,850,000
October 1, 1999                           1,925,000
April 1, 2000                             2,000,000
October 1, 2000                           2,075,000
April 1, 2001                             2,155,000
October 1, 2001                           2,240,000
April 1, 2002                             2,325,000
October 1, 2002                           2,415,000
April 1, 2003                             2,510,000
October 1, 2003                           2,605,000
April 1, 2004                             2,705,000
October 1, 2004                           2,810,000
April 1, 2005                             2,920,000
October 1, 2005                           3,030,000
April 1, 2006                             3,150,000
October 1, 2006                           3,270,000
April 1, 2007                             3,395,000
October 1, 2007                           3,530,000
April 1, 2008                             3,665,000
October 1, 2008                           3,805,000
April 1, 2009                             3,955,000
October 1, 2009                           4,105,000
April 1, 2010                             4,265,000
October 1, 2010                           4,430,000
April 1, 2011                             4,590,000

____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:



Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Procurement under Part B of the Project

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Arab Republic
of Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods or services of specialized nature estimated to cost in
the aggregate not more than the equivalent of $8,000,000, and which
the Bank and the Borrower agree that they are available only from a
limited number of suppliers, may be procured on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.08, 2.09, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Equipment and materials, estimated in the aggregate to cost
not more than the equivalent of $4,000,000, which are proprietary or
are required to ensure standardization or compatibility with
existing equipment and facilities, may be procured under contracts
to be concluded with the suppliers thereof on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods;
and (ii) each subsequent contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two



conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1)
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,                   



withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.