World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3424 TUN

           (Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 13, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3424 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) The Bank has received a letter dated November 20,
1991, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve the Borrower’s economic and
financial reforms (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and request-
ing assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports and services required during such execution; and

      WHEREAS: (B) On the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided in support of the Program to provide such assis-
tance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three (3) tranches as
hereinafter provided.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."; and

      (d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
      to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.".

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Dinar" means the Borrower’s unit of currency;

      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958;

      (c)   "Domestic Absorption" means the Dinar value in calendar
year 1989 of the sum of the Borrower’s Domestic Production (as such
term defined hereinafter) and imports less its export products, per
item 0111 to item 6414 in the NAP Classifications (as such term is
defined hereinafter);

      (d)   "Domestic Production" means the Dinar value in calendar
year 1989 of the Borrower’s output of products, per items 0111 to
6414 in the NAP Classification (as such term is defined hereinafter)
in respect of production prices and distribution margins, and per
item 0111 to item 6632 in the said Classification in respect of
foreign trade;

      (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year;

      (f)   "Money Market Rate" means the Borrower’s annual inter-
bank rate of interest, as established by the Central Bank’s Circular
No. 86-42, dated December 1, 1986;

      (g)   "NAP Classification" means the Borrower’s nomenclature
for activities and products (Nomenclature des Activites et
Produits), as established and published by the Borrower’s National
Institute of Statistics ;



      (h)   "Preferential Interest Rate" means a lending interest
rate which is below the Money Market Rate prevailing on the day of
the approval of the respective loan by the lender;

      (i)   "Rediscounted Preferential Credit" means credits
extended by banking/financial institutions operating within the
Borrower’s territory and rediscounted at the Central Bank at
interest rates below the Money Market Rate;

      (j)   "Special Resources Credit" means the credits extended by
banking/financial institutions operating within the Borrower’s
territory on resources derived from the Borrower’s external or
budgetary funds and allocated to financing specific investment
projects; and

      (k)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Clas-
sification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)



                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) The Central Bank is designated as represen-
tative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with the responsibility
for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan, and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be con-
solidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not
less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.



      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                  Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                  Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                  Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely:

      (a)   That a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out.

      (b)   That the Borrower shall have failed to reduce, by
February 15, 1992, the share of its imports subject to quantitative
restrictions by at least fifteen percentage points (15%), in terms
of Domestic Production weights, as determined on the basis of the
Domestic Production Value of NAP Classification items 0111 to item
6414 applicable as of Fiscal Year 1989, from the level in effect as
of May 30, 1991.



                            ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   The Borrower has submitted for adoption by its Chamber
of Deputies a draft Fiscal Year 1992 Finance Law (Loi de Finances)
allowing the Borrower to take all necessary action to reduce the
share of its imports subject to quantitative restrictions by at
least fifteen percentage points (15%), in terms of Domestic
Production weights, as determined on the basis of the Domestic
Production Value of NAP Classification item 0111 to item 6632
applicable as of Fiscal Year 1989, from the level in effect as of
May 30, 1991;

      (b)   The Borrower has reduced the aggregate share of goods
subject to price control at the distribution stage by at least ten
percentage points (10%) in terms of their value of Domestic
Production, as determined on the basis of the Domestic Production
Value of NAP Classification item 111 to item 6414 applicable as of
Fiscal Year 1989, from the level in effect as of May 30, 1991;

      (c)   The Borrower has taken any and all necessary action,
satisfactory to the Bank, to amend the requirement on deposit
banking institutions to hold twenty percent (20%) of their deposit
assets in Bons d’Equipement, and to permit such institutions to hold
any available freely market traded treasury securities of the
Borrower, other than Bons d’Equipement;

      (d)   The Borrower has furnished to the Bank an action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, for the redemption over four (4) years,
covering the period 1993-1996, of any and all outstanding Bons
d’Equipement issued after Fiscal Year 1988;

      (e)   The Borrower has furnished to the Bank the relevant
extracts, satisfactory to the Bank, of the Borrower’s draft Fiscal
Year 1992 Finance Law (Loi de Finances), submitted for adoption by
its Chamber of Deputies, which extracts shall: (i) amend the tax
treatment of financial instruments so as to remove all restrictions
limiting the sale, purchase and freedom of transfer of said
financial instruments within the Borrower’s territory; and (ii)
harmonize the taxation of income derived from special savings
accounts with the taxation of income derived from other financial
instruments within the Borrower’s territory;

      (f)   The Borrower has taken any and all necessary action,
satisfactory to the Bank, to allow each deposit bank operating
within its territory to provide its loans at an interest rate above
the prevailing Money Market Rate plus three percentage interest
points (3%), provided, however, that the difference between said
Money Market Rate and each such bank’s respective average lending
rate in respect of all of its loans, excluding Rediscounted
Preferential Credits and Special Resource Credits, does not exceed
three percentage points (3%);

      (g)   The Central Bank has adopted a program of actions to
strengthen its prudential banking supervision capabilities, which
program shall be satisfactory to both the Bank and the Borrower;

      (h)   The Central Bank has adopted regulations, satisfactory
to the Bank, for inter alia: (i) the provisioning and classification
of loans, as of January 1, 1992, by banking institutions operating
within the Borrower’s territory; (ii) the fixing of maximum loan
concentration for each of said banking institution at forty percent
(40%) of such institution’s respective aggregate own funds; (iii)
the definition of group ownership and control in respect of said
institutions’ borrowers; (iv) the definition of auditing principles
upon which auditors must base their opinions, and the removal of



ceilings on the cost of long-version audits; and (v) the obligation
of banking institutions operating within the Borrower’s territory to
provide to the Central Bank quarterly profit and loss accounts; and

      (i)   The Borrower has increased, by at least one percentage
point (1%), the interest rate on Rediscounted Preferential Credit,
based on a methodology satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Plan and Regional Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Plan and Regional Development
            Ministry of Plan and Regional Development
            Place Ali Zouaoui
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MIPLAN                    15117
                  Tunis

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                  By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR



                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Pieter B. Bottelier
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   Expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and
                                  associated materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                  semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                  worked

                                  GroupSubgroupDescription of Items

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                  parts thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors

   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals
                                  (except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   Expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower,
excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services
supplied from the territory of such other country;

      (c)   Payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this



Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of eighty-seven million five hundred
thousand dollars ($87,500,000) may be made on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1991;

      (d)   Expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000);

      (e)   Expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (f)   Expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and

      (g)   Expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) for petroleum products.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of five
million dollars ($5,000,000) may be permitted by the Bank upon the
basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of:

      (a)   One hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), unless the
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the
Bank, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program, and that the actions described in Part A of Schedule
4 to this Agreement have been taken; and

      (b)   One hundred and seventy million dollars ($170,000,000),
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, with the progress achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out of the Program, and that the actions described
in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

      beginning September 1, 1997
      through   September 1, 2008          10,415,000

On March 1, 2009                           10,455,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. (See
      General Conditions at Sections 3.04 and 4.03.)



                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000), or more, each shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:



            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than five million dollars ($5,000,000) shall be
awarded:

      (a)   By purchasers required to follow the Borrower’s public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and

      (b)   By other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers from at least two (2) countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.    Contracts for the procurement of proprietary items, or items
required for standardization, may be awarded after direct negotia-
tions with suppliers, subject to the prior approval of the Bank all
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

7.The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

                            SCHEDULE 4

                Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

Part A:     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1

1.    Continued maintenance by the Borrower of a macro-economic
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program, as
determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.

2.    The Borrower has reduced the share of its imports subject to
quantitative restrictions by at least thirty percentage points
(30%), in terms of Domestic Production weights, as determined on the
basis of the Domestic Production Value of NAP Classification item



0111 to item 6632 applicable as of Fiscal Year 1989, from the level
in effect as of May 30, 1991.

3.    The Borrower has increased the aggregate share of goods not
subject to price control at the distribution stage to at least forty
percentage points (40%) in terms of their value of the Domestic
Absorption in Fiscal Year 1989, as measured on the basis of a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    The Borrower has: (i) removed any and all taxation require-
ments, and related rights and obligations, that restrict or
otherwise impair the development and operation of an efficient
secondary market for the purchase, sale and free trade of financial
instruments within the Borrower’s territory; and (ii) has adopted
rules and regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, exempting from
taxation at least one quarter (1/4) of all specific provisions and
interest suspension.

5.    The Central Bank has adopted regulations, satisfactory to the
Bank, for inter alia: (i) reducing the maximum loan concentration
permitted for each banking institution operating within the
Borrower’s territory to thirty-five percent (35%) of such institu-
tion’s respective aggregate own funds; (ii) setting forth standard
auditing principles in respect of banking institutions operating
within the Borrower’s territory, which principles shall be consis-
tent with internationally accepted auditing practices and shall
include, inter alia, the obligation to provide long-version audit
reports; and (iii) regulating the provision by said institutions to
the Central Bank of required accounting and statistical documenta-
tion, which regulation shall become effective not later than
January 1, 1993.

6.    The Borrower has submitted for adoption by its Chamber of
Deputies a banking law satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    (a)   The Borrower and the Bank shall have carried out a joint
review, based on data acceptable to the Bank, of the individual
financial position of each audited or inspected banking institution
operating within the Borrower’s territory; and

      (b)   Taking into considerations the Bank’s recommendations
pursuant to such review, the Borrower has put into operation action
plans for, inter alia, strengthening or restructuring each of said
banking institutions.

8.    The Central Bank has adopted a program, acceptable to the
Bank, for auditing and examining the overall viability of banking
institutions accounting for at least two-thirds (2/3) of the banking
operations carried out within the Borrower’s territory.

9.    The Borrower has taken all action necessary, satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) limiting the duration and selectivity of tax
advantages accorded to investors under the Borrower’s investment
codes; and (b) adopting satisfactory measures to reform related
finanial advantages.

10.   Without limitation or restriction to the provision of Section
5.01 (i) of this Agreement, the Borrower has increased, by at least
two percentage points (2%), the interest rate on Rediscounted
Preferential Credits, based on a methodology satisfactory to the
Bank.

11.   The Borrower has adopted guidelines, acceptable to the Bank,
in respect of the investments and related operations of its social
security funds.

Part B:     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1

1.    Continued maintenance by the Borrower of a macro-economic
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program, as
determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank.



2.    The Borrower has taken all necessary measures, satisfactory to
the Bank, to eliminate all quantitative restrictions on imports of
all goods, except for the following goods which have been previously
specified in agreement with the Bank: (a) security related goods;
(b) basic consumption articles whose consumer prices are subsidized
by the Borrower; (c) certain luxury goods which are not produced
within the Borrower’s territory; and (d) certain other articles
previously approved by the Bank.

3.    The Borrower has reduced the aggregate share of goods not
subject to price control at the distribution stage to at least sixty
percentage points (60%) in terms of their value of the Domestic
Absorption as of December 31, 1989, as measured on the basis of a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    The Borrower has achieved progress, satisfactory to the Bank,
in carrying out the action plan referred to in Section 5.01 (d) of
this Agreement.

5.    The Borrower has removed any and all percentage interest point
ceilings applicable to the lending rate or rates charged by each
deposit bank operating within its territory.

6.    The Central Bank has adopted regulations, satisfactory to the
Bank, for, inter alia, reducing the maximum loan concentration
permitted for each banking institution operating within the
Borrower’s territory to twenty-five percentage points (25%) of such
institution’s total own funds and providing for the establishment of
a surcharge, in the form of an addition to own funds, for exceeding
the said maximum of twenty-five percentage points (25%).

7.    The Borrower and the Bank have carried out a joint review,
based on data acceptable to the Bank, of the individual financial
positions of each audited or inspected banking institution operating
within the Borrower’s territory.

8.    The Bank and the Borrower have carried out a joint review,
based on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the progress
achieved in carrying out the actions plans referred to in sub-
paragraph 7 (b) of Part A of this Schedule.

9.    The Central Bank has adopted a program, acceptable to the
Bank, for auditing and examining the overall viability of banking
institutions accounting for all banking operations carried out
within the Borrower’s territory.

10.The Borrower has: (a) carried out the action plans referred to
in sub-paragraph 9 (b) of Part A of this Schedule; and (b) adopted
an Investment Code and related implementing regulations, all
satisfactory to the Bank.

11.   The Borrower has adopted a program, satisfactory to the Bank,
for reforming its social security system, and has carried out the
measures of said program in respect of the most disadvantaged groups
of its population.