World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3373 MOR

              (Financial Sector Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                          CREDIT DU MAROC

                      Dated November 11, 1991

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3373 MOR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CREDIT DU MAROC
(the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated June 3, 1991,
from the Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor), describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the financial sector of the Guarantor’s economy (the
Program), declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of
the Program and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing
of imports required during such execution; and the Bank has agreed
to make a loan to the Guarantor in support of the Program on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank (the Kingdom Loan Agreement);

      (B)   the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



financing of the Project;

      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations, as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                        General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Charter" means the Borrower’s charter (Statuts) dated
June 1, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement, pursuant to
which the Borrower has been established and is operating as a
financial institution, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (b)   "Public Enterprise" means any enterprise, of which more
than 50% of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned or effectively controlled by the Guarantor or by
any of its political or administrative sub-divisions or agencies or
by any Public Enterprise;

      (c)   "Private Enterprise" means any (i) individual entre-
preneur, (ii) partnership of individual entrepreneurs, (iii) Public
Enterprise, acceptable to the Bank, which is in the process of being
privatized, or (iv) enterprise which is not a Public Enterprise, to
whom or to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan;

      (d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Private Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Private Enterprise
for an Investment Project;

      (f)   "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines
regulating the provision of credit by financial institutions in the
Guarantor’s territory, issued by the Central Bank of the Guarantor
and summarized in the Note dated May 31, 1991, prepared by the
Professional Association of Moroccan Banks of which the Borrower is
a member;

      (g)   "Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme" means the scheme
established pursuant to the Letter dated May 30, 1991, from the
Guarantor’s Minister of Finance to the Borrower, for the protection
of the Borrower against the risk of foreign exchange losses; and

      (h)   "Category" means any Category of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II



                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eight million five hundred thousand dollars
($8,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a Private
Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect



            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency, in
conformity with sound financial, technical and administrative
standards and practices, with qualified management and staff in
adequate numbers, and in accordance with the Charter and the Credit
Policy Guidelines, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   (i)  make Sub-loans to Private Enterprises for Invest-
ment Projects on the basis of the criteria, procedures and terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ii) exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and
achieve the purposes of the Project; and (iii) supervise and monitor
the carrying out by the Private Enterprises of their respective
Investment Projects in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (b)   ensure that, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made by the
Borrower for any one Investment Project, shall not exceed the lesser
of (i) the equivalent of $6,000,000, and (ii) the equivalent of 70%
of the total estimated cost (excluding the cost of land) of such
Investment Project, as such estimated cost shall be calculated in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out a review of the
impact of the Program upon its operations, in particular upon the
Borrower’s prudential ratios, furnish to the Bank the results of
said review, not later than March 31, 1992, and thereafter exchange
views with the Bank on the results of said review.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project



and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, its accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   account referred to in Section 4.03 of this
                   Agreement, for each fiscal year audited in
                   accordance with sound auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of said
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.

   (b)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain on
its books, in accordance with its normal financial procedures and on
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a separate account to which it
shall credit each payment of interest or other charges on, or
repayment of principal under, a Sub-loan upon receipt thereof. All
amounts so credited to said separate account shall be utilized by
the Borrower, to the extent they are not yet required to meet the
Borrower’s repayment obligations to the Bank under this Agreement,
exclusively to finance the further development of the Guarantor’s
private sector in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank.



      Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take such steps satisfac-
tory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against the
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

      (b)   Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall at all times maintain, in respect
of this Loan, its participation in the Foreign Exchange Risk
Coverage Scheme in accordance with the requirements thereof.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and

      (b)   the Charter or the Credit Policy Guidelines shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (b) of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Kingdom Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                        ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or



                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Credit du Maroc
            48-58 Boulevard Mohamed V
            Casablanca
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   CREDIROC                  21054

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Willi Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                         CREDIT DU MAROC

                         By /s/ Mustapha Faris
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn to finance 100% of
the withdrawals made by each Private Enterprise under its respective
Sub-loan.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

     (a)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan shall have
been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
or

     (b)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $850,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1990.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objectives of the Project are to assist in financing such
productive facilities and resources as will contribute to the
development of the Guarantor’s private sector.

     The Project consists of the following activities, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:



     The financing through the provision of Sub-loans by the
Borrower of specific development projects for the development,
upgrading and expansion of the facilities, and strengthening of the
management and operations, of Private Enterprises.

                               * * *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 1997                           155,000
July 15, 1997                              160,000
January 15, 1998                           165,000
July 15, 1998                              175,000
January 15, 1999                           180,000
July 15, 1999                              185,000
January 15, 2000                           195,000
July 15, 2000                              200,000
January 15, 2001                           210,000
July 15, 2001                              220,000
January 15, 2002                           225,000
July 15, 2002                              235,000
January 15, 2003                           245,000
July 15, 2003                              255,000
January 15, 2004                           265,000
July 15, 2004                              275,000
January 15, 2005                           285,000
July 15, 2005                              295,000
January 15, 2006                           305,000
July 15, 2006                              320,000
January 15, 2007                           330,000
July 15, 2007                              345,000
January 15, 2008                           355,000
July 15, 2008                              370,000
January 15, 2009                           385,000
July 15, 2009                              400,000
January 15, 2010                           415,000
July 15, 2010                              430,000
January 15, 2011                           450,000
July 15, 2011                              470,000

_____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity



More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity

More than sixteen years but not            0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before            1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

              Modifications of the General Conditions

      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following are substituted therefor:

            "or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 4 (c) of
      Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect
      of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
      or requests permitted under sub-paragraph (a) or sub-paragraph
      (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applica-
      tions or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
      the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
      such applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the
      Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
      or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such
      amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                            SCHEDULE 5

                 Sub-loans: Criteria, Procedures,
                  Principal Terms and Conditions

      Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement, and except as the Bank and the Borrower may otherwise
agree, the criteria, procedures and principal terms and conditions
set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement.

1.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Private Enterprise which
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower on the
basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, that it is credit-
worthy and its projected internal cash generation or equity
increases shall be sufficient to enable it to carry out the
Investment Project and to contribute at least 30% of the aggregate



cost thereof (excluding the cost of land).

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only for an Investment Project
which is: (a) determined to be technically and commercially
feasible, including on the basis, inter alia, of the existence of
markets for its output; (b) designed in accordance with appropriate
safety, health and environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank;
and (c) calculated to have a financial rate of return of at least
12%; all as shall have been determined and calculated to the
satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis of an appraisal, including
an environmental impact assessment, carried out in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    (a)   No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

            (i)    the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
                   have been approved by the Bank, and such
                   expenditures shall have been made not earlier
                   than ninety days prior to the date on which the
                   Bank shall have received the application and
                   information required under paragraph 4 (a) of
                   this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or

           (ii)    the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
                   have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the
                   Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
                   Account, and such expenditures shall have been
                   made not earlier than ninety days prior to the
                   date on which the Bank shall have received the
                   request and information required under paragraph
                   4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such
                   free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this
                   Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a
                   Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount
                   to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
                   which shall not exceed the sum of $2,000,000
                   equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
                   amounts financed or proposed to be financed out
                   of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other
                   loan, provided for in any outstanding loan
                   agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or
                   the Guarantor entered into before the date of
                   this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been
                   or are being used for financing goods and
                   services directly and materially related to such
                   Investment Project.

      (b)  The ninety day limitation referred to in sub-paragraphs
(a) (i) and (a) (ii) of this paragraph shall not apply to expendi-
tures to be financed under Sub-loans in respect of which the
applications and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of this
Schedule, or the requests and information required under paragraph
4 (b) of this Schedule, as the case may be, are received by the Bank
not later than September 30, 1991.

4.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with (i) a description of the Private Enterprise and an appraisal of
the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Private
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the



Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1993.

5.    The proceeds of the Loan which may be withdrawn under a Sub-
loan shall not exceed 90% of the expenditures for items to be
financed under such Sub-loan.

6.    Each Sub-loan shall: (a) have a maturity of not more than 15
years, including a grace period of not more than 5 years; and (b) be
made on other terms, including those relating to interest and other
charges, which are in accordance with the Borrower’s applicable
policies and procedures pursuant to the Credit Policy Guidelines;
provided, however, that the interest rate to be charged on the
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, shall be equal at least to the greater of: (i) the rate of
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) any
additional charge required to be paid on the Sub-loan pursuant to
the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme.

7.    Each Sub-loan shall be made on further terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Private
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including:

      (a)   that each Private Enterprise shall undertake to: (i)
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with (A) sound technical, financial and
managerial standards, and (B) appropriate safety, health and
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, maintain adequate
records, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and
other resources required for the purpose; (ii) procure the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them (provided that the Private Enterprise
may, with the prior approval of the Bank, carry out works under
force account in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank), and utilize such goods and services exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) enable the Bank and
the Borrower to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Private Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; and (v) prepare and furnish to the
Borrower, for forwarding to the Bank, if so requested by the Bank,
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Private Enterprise and to
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and

      (b)   provisions to ensure the right of the Borrower to
suspend or terminate the right of the Private Enterprise to the use
of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Private Enterprise
to perform its obligations under its contract providing for the Sub-
loan.