World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3361 YU

        (Kolubara B Thermal Power and Lignite Mine Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

             ELECTRICITY GENERATION COMPANY OF SERBIA

                     Dated September 12, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3361 YU

                          EP(S) AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ELECTRICITY
GENERATION COMPANY OF SERBIA (EP(S)).

      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Electroprivreda of Serbia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars
($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that EP(S) agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Agreement with Serbia) of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Republic of Serbia (Serbia),
Serbia has agreed to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in the Agreement with Serbia;

      (C)   on the basis of Article 11 of the Electricity Act
(Official Gazette of Serbia No. 59/89), Article 141 of the statutes
of the Borrower and Article 37 of the statutes of EP(S), the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



Borrower and EP(S) have entered into an agreement (the Transfer
Agreement) dated August 16, 1990, pursuant to which the Borrower has
agreed to construct the Kolubara B thermal power plant and Tamnava
West Mine and, following completion of construction of the respec-
tive facilities, to transfer said facilities to EP(S) for their
operation and maintenance; and

      WHEREAS, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, EP(S) has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                            Definitions

      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.

                             ARTICLE II

                       Obligations of EP(S)

      Section 2.01. EP(S) shall, following completion of construc-
tion of the facilities under Parts A and B of the Project and in
accordance with the provisions of the Transfer Agreement, operate
and maintain said facilities in accordance with sound administra-
tive, financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 2.02. EP(S) shall, together with the Borrower in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.11 of the Loan Agree-
ment:

      (a)   prepare, on the basis of the on-going study on under-
ground mines in Serbia being carried out by the Belgrade Mining
Institute and the Belgrade Institute for Economic Efficiency, an
action program for restructuring said underground mines; and

      (b)   by March 31, 1992, furnish to the Bank for review and
comment the findings and recommendations of said study, together
with said proposed action program.

      Section 2.03. EP(S) shall:

      (a)   by June 30, 1992, carry out, on the basis of terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, the study included in Part D (2)
of the Project to identify the measures necessary to improve its
accounting and financial management system and furnish to the Bank
for review and comment the findings and recommendations of said
study; and

      (b)   thereafter, put into effect, on a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank, the recommendations agreed with the Bank for improving
its accounting and financial and management system.

      Section 2.04. EP(S) shall, by October 31 of each year,
beginning with its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, furnish
to the Bank for review and comment, its proposed investment program,
together with the associated financing plan, for each of EP(S)’s
1992 through 1996 fiscal years.

      Section 2.05. EP(S) shall:

      (a)   beginning with the fiscal year commencing on January 1,
1993, furnish to the Bank for review and comment, by November 30 of
each year, the proposed agreement with EP(S) for the allocation to
the Borrower and EP(S) of revenues received by the Borrower and



EP(S) from their respective operations, for each of its 1992 through
1996 fiscal years; and

      (b)   thereafter, enter into said proposed agreement for each
respective year, taking into consideration the Bank’s comments
thereon.

                            ARTICLE III

                Management and Operations of EP(S)

      Section 3.01. EP(S) shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.

      Section 3.02. EP(S) shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.

      Section 3.03. EP(S) shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) EP(S) shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   EP(S) shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by a
                  competent and experienced independent auditing
                  organization acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than five months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EP(S) shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1991, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 35% of the annual average of EP(S)’s
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year and the 1992 and 1993 fiscal years.

      (b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, EP(S)
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EP(S) and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon
its completion.



      (c)   If any such review shows that EP(S) would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for EP(S)’s fiscal years
covered by such review, EP(S) shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such require-
ments.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations, consumer deposits
                        and consumer contributions in aid of
                        construction, net non-operating income and
                        any reduction in working capital other than
                        cash; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions, including administration, adequate
                        maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                        of taxes (excluding provision for deprecia-
                        tion and other non-cash operating charges),
                        debt service requirements, all cash
                        dividends and other cash distributions of
                        surplus, increase in working capital other
                        than cash and other cash outflows other
                        than capital expenditures.

            (ii)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

           (iii)  The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  fiscal year.

            (iv)  The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
                  ties which will become due and payable or could
                  under circumstances then existing be called for
                  payment within twelve months, including accounts
                  payable, customer advances, debt service require-
                  ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                  dividends.

            (vi)  The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

            (vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations.



           (viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EP(S) shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of EP(S) shows that the estimated net
revenues of EP(S) for the 1992 fiscal year, 1993 fiscal year and
1994 fiscal year and thereafter, respectively, shall be at least 2,
2.5 and 3 times the estimated debt service requirements of EP(S) in
such year on all debt of EP(S), including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EP(S)
                  maturing by its terms more than one year after
                  the date on which it is originally incurred.

           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.

          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:

                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations and net non-operating
                        income; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                        tions, including administration, adequate
                        maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                        taxes, but excluding provision for
                        depreciation, other non-cash operating
                        charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.

            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and

                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

            (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by EP(S) not earlier than twelve months
                  prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                  which both the Bank and EP(S) accept as
                  reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
                  EP(S) of its acceptability, provided that no
                  event has occurred since such notification which
                  has, or may reasonably be expected in the future



                  to have, a material adverse effect on the
                  financial condition or future operating results
                  of EP(S).

          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension

      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.

      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of EP(S) thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify EP(S) thereof.

      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

                     Miscellaneous Provisions

      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:

 For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

      For EP(S):

            Electricity Generation Company of Serbia
            Carice Milice 2
            Belgrade
            Yugoslavia

            Telefax:                      Telex:

                  011/620-694               11281



      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EP(S), may be taken or executed by the
General Manager or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.

      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                  ELECTRICITY GENERATION COMPANY OF SERBIA

                  By /s/ D. Mujezinovic
                                         Authorized Representative