World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3334 IN

              (Industrial Pollution Control Project)

                              between

                               INDIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 8, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3334 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1991, between INDIA (the
Borrower), acting by its President, and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement between the Borrower and the International
Development Association (the Association) of even date
herewith (the Development Credit Agreement as herein
further defined), has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of Parts B.1 and B.2 (a) of the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the Association
to provide additional financial assistance towards the
financing of Parts A, B.2, and C of the Project and by
the Development Credit Agreement the Association is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



principal amount equivalent to twenty-three million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,400,000);

      (C)   Parts A and C.1 of the Project will be carried
out by the Borrower and Parts B.2 and C.2 of the Project
will be carried out by Industrial Development Bank of
India (IDBI as herein defined) with the assistance of the
Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to IDBI a part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement;

      (D)   Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by
IDBI and Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Limited (ICICI as herein defined) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to IDBI and ICICI the
proceeds of the Loan as provided herein; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith among the Bank, IDBI and ICICI;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

      (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is
relettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph
(k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall
      have arisen under which any further
      withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article
      III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Preamble to this
Agreement, the General Conditions and in the Development
Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:

      (a)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes the
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit
Agreement;

      (b)   "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement;



      (c)   "ICICI" means the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India Limited, a company
established and existing under the laws of India;

      (d)   "ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
ICICI pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes any schedules to the ICICI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

      (e)   "IDBI" means Industrial Development Bank of
India, a corporation established under the Industrial
Development Bank of India Act, 1964 of the Borrower, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;

      (f)   "IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
IDBI pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes any schedules to the IDBI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

      (g)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to
which IDBI or ICICI propose to make or have made a
Sub-loan and/or a Sub-grant;

      (h)   "Investment Project" means a specific
development project to be carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan and/or a
Sub-grant;

      (i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among
the Bank, IDBI and ICICI of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 3.01 (c) hereof;

      (k)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of
lending and investment policy approved by the Directors
of IDBI and ICICI on December 9, 1987, and September 19,
1990, respectively, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (l)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by IDBI or ICICI out of the proceeds of the Loan to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project; and

      (m)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean the IDBI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the ICICI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement collectively.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of one hundred twenty-four million dollars
($124,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so



agree, to be paid) by IDBI and ICICI on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-
loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1998 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month
                   period ending on the date immediately
                   preceding each date specified in Section
                   2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                   the Interest Period in which this
                   Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                   cost, as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                   the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                   excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                   (B) loans which may be made by the Bank
                   after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                   rates determined otherwise than as
                   provided in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar
                   year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less
than six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to
read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on
            the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for
            each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
            percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates



            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
            rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the
            end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
            Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
            period commencing on January 1, April 1, July
            1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this
Section, Sections 3.02 and 4.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, and 3 thereto are
incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the following
modifications in said Sections and Schedules 2 and 3
unless the context otherwise requires:

            (i)    the term "Association" shall be read as
                   "Bank";

           (ii)    the term "Credit" and "Credit Account"
                   shall be read as "Loan" and "Loan
                   Account"; and

          (iii)    the term "this Agreement" shall, unless
                   the context otherwise requires, be read
                   as "the Loan Agreement".

      (b)   So long as any part of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement shall remain
outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified
otherwise by the Bank:

            (i)    all actions taken, including approvals
                   given, by the Association pursuant to
                   any of the Sections of, and Schedules
                   to, the Development Credit Agreement
                   enumerated in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section, as well as pursuant to Section
                   2.02 (a) of the Development Credit
                   Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken
                   or given in the name and on behalf of
                   both the Association and the Bank; and

            (ii)   all information or documentation
                   furnished by the Borrower to the
                   Association pursuant to the provisions
                   of any of such Sections of the
                   Development Credit Agreement or
                   Schedules thereto shall be deemed to be
                   furnished to both the Association and
                   the Bank.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B
(except sub-grants) of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of
India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement or
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause IDBI and ICICI to perform all their respective
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall
take or cause to be taken all actions, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IDBI and
ICICI to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Loan to IDBI and ICICI under subsidiary loan agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and IDBI and the
Borrower and ICICI respectively, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
including those indicated in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.

      (d)   The Borrower shall cause IDBI and ICICI to
relend the proceeds onlent to them under the IDBI
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the ICICI Subsidiary Loan
Agreement respectively to Investment Enterprises, in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
Paragraph 1 (a) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
to enable them to carry out the Investment Projects
selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria laid
down in Paragraph 1 (c) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and their respective Parts B and C.2 of the
Project shall be carried out by IDBI and ICICI pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)   IDBI or ICICI shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that IDBI or ICICI will be able to
perform their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.



      (c)   The Industrial Development Bank of India Act,
1964 or the Memorandum and Articles of Association of
ICICI dated January 5, 1955 (both as amended to the date
of this Agreement) or the Statement of Policy shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or
the financial condition of IDBI or ICICI or their ability
to carry out the Project or to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of IDBI or ICICI or for
the suspension of their respective operations.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:

      (a)    the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and IDBI and the
Borrower and ICICI respectively; and

      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement shall have been
fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by IDBI and ICICI, and is legally
binding upon IDBI and ICICI in accordance with its terms;
and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and IDBI and
the Borrower and ICICI respectively and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and IDBI and the Borrower and
ICICI in accordance with their respective terms.

      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

      Section 5.04. If the Development Credit Agreement
terminates prior to the termination of this Agreement,
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect between the Borrower and the Bank.



                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, India

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                   New Delhi

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         INDIA

                         By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

        Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
      The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall, inter alia,



provide for the following terms and conditions:

      (a)   Subsidiary loan amount shall be $74,000,000
            equivalent in local currency for IDBI and
            $50,000,000 equivalent in local currency for
            ICICI.

      (b)   Relending rate to IDBI and ICICI shall be 2%
            below their commercial lending rate. The
            Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.

      (c)   Onlending rate to Investment Enterprises
            shall, unless revised by the Borrower, in
            consultation with the Bank, be 15%.

      (d)   Repayment terms of Sub-loans shall not exceed
            fifteen (15) years inclusive of up to four
            years of grace.

      (e)   Repayments by IDBI and ICICI to the Borrower
            shall not exceed twenty (20) years inclusive
            of up to five years of grace. IDBI and ICICI
            shall bear the Sub-loan repayment risk.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in
dollars)*

February 15, 1997                                2,260,000
August 15, 1997                                  2,350,000
February 15, 1998                                2,440,000
August 15, 1998                                  2,535,000
February 15, 1999                                2,630,000
August 15, 1999                                  2,735,000
February 15, 2000                                2,840,000
August 15, 2000                                  2,950,000
February 15, 2001                                3,065,000
August 15, 2001                                  3,180,000
February 15, 2002                                3,305,000
August 15, 2002                                  3,430,000
February 15, 2003                                3,565,000
August 15, 2003                                  3,700,000
February 15, 2004                                3,845,000
August 15, 2004                                  3,995,000
February 15, 2005                                4,150,000
August 15, 2005                                  4,310,000
February 15, 2006                                4,475,000
August 15, 2006                                  4,650,000
February 15, 2007                                4,830,000
August 15, 2007                                  5,015,000
February 15, 2008                                5,210,000
August 15, 2008                                  5,410,000
February 15, 2009                                5,620,000
August 15, 2009                                  5,835,000
February 15, 2010                                6,060,000
August 15, 2010                                  6,295,000
February 15, 2011                                6,540,000
August 15, 2011                                  6,775,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar
      equivalents determined as of the respective dates
      of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
      3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment



      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions, the premium payable on the principal amount
of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the
percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means the Category
(2) (excluding Sub-grants) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the
provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may
be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall
qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to



it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Bank requests for deposits into the
                   Special Account at such intervals as the
                   Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Bank the documents and other
                   evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                   4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis
                   of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
                   the Loan Account and deposit into the
                   Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as
                   shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out
                   of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in the
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions applicable
thereto; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Category for the Project, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be



utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions
applicable thereto.