World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3296 TU

                 (Technology Development Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated April 5, 1991

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3296 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Turkish Standards
Institute (TSE), the Scientific and Technical Research Organization
(TUBITAK) and the Foundation for World Class Technology (the
Foundation), all of the Borrower;

      (C)   as a part of its assistance to the above entities in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower will make available to
TUBITAK, TSE and the Foundation the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and TUBITAK and TSE;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and TUBITAK and TSE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and

      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TSE pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

      (c)   "MSTQ" means the metrology, standards, testing and
quality system of Turkey;

      (d)   "NQC" means the National Quality Council, established
within TSE;

      (e)   "NMSI" means the National Measurement Standards
Institute of TUBITAK;

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "PIUs" means the Project Implementation Units
established within TSE and TUBITAK to coordinate their respective
activities under the Project; and

      (h)   "CMB" means the Capital Market Board of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable



semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause TUBITAK and TSE to perform all of their obligations under the
Project Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable TUBITAK and TSE to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend to TSE the proceeds of the
Loan allocated for TSE under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b)
and (4) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and TSE, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which
shall take TSE’s ability to pay into account in determining its
financial obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      (d)   The Borrower shall make available to TUBITAK, under a
subsidiary agreement and in the form of a grant, the proceeds of the
Loan allocated for TUBITAK under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3)
(a) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure the appointment
of a suitably qualified person to the position of Secretary General
of the Foundation, and the start of functioning of such Secretary
General’s Office, not later than October 31, 1991; (b) make
available to the Foundation, in the form of a grant under a
subsidiary agreement, the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Part B
of the Project under Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (c) ensure the inclusion
as an integral part of said subsidiary agreement of the provisions
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, relating to the implemen-
tation of Part B of the Project.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1994,
take all action required for the conversion of NQC into an
independent national entity responsible for quality certification
and accreditation; and (b) ensure, by December 31, 1994, through
appropriate revision of existing regulations, the existence of a
framework which shall enable competition in the provision of quality
certification and accreditation services.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that services to
be provided by the Borrower’s universities and research institutes
to the Foundation for purposes of Part B of the Project shall be so
provided on the basis of freely negotiated contracts; and (b) ensure
that the tax exemption status of the Foundation as non-profit
organization shall be confirmed upon the Foundation’s satisfaction
of the legal requirements therefore.

      Section 3.05. In order to promote the growth of its venture
capital industry, the Borrower shall prepare, concurrently with the



preparation of regulations required under Part C of the Project,
appropriate amendments to relevant legislation which shall ensure
that income generated by funds registered with CMB as venture
capital funds shall not be subject to double taxation.

      Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement; and (b) procurement of the goods and
consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.07. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance
respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried
out by TUBITAK and TSE (each with respect to its activities under
the Project) pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall exchange views regularly with
the Bank, regarding progress of the venture capital industry of the
Borrower.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure sub-
                  mitted during such fiscal year, together with the
                  procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit



                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. Starting with the fiscal year 1991, the Borrower
shall cause and enable TUBITAK to develop a framework which shall
identify consolidated allocations and expenditures for technology
development.

                            ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   TUBITAK or TSE shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that TUBITAK or TSE will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is  specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and TSE.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TUBITAK and TSE, and is legally binding upon TUBITAK and
TSE in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TSE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and TSE in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik



            Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
            Mustesarligi
            Bakanliklar, Ankara

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  HAZINE                    821-42285 (MIYE-TR) or
                  Ankara                    821-42689 (ANK-TR)

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64l45 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                  By /s/ F. Selekler
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods:

    (a)  TUBITAK               9,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
    (b)  TSE                  24,100,000        100% of local
                                                expenditures
    (b)  the Foundation       32,600,000        (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 50%
                                                of local ex-



                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured
                                                locally

(2) Consultants’                                100%
    services:

    (a)  TUBITAK               2,300,000

    (b)  TSE                   4,000,000

    (c)  the Foundation       10,700,000

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Training:                                   100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

    (a)  TUBITAK               2,200,000

    (b)  TSE                   4,300,000

(4) Civil Works for
    facilities of TSE         10,000,000        80%

                              __________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be made
for payments made prior to that date but after February 1, 1991.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
its efforts to: (a) develop the MSTQ system to international
standards; (b) stimulate private investments in industrial tech-
nology development; (c) promote the growth of venture capital
industry; and (d) strengthen the capacity of TUBITAK to undertake
new initiatives in science and technology.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     The MSTQ System

1.    Implementation of (a) a medium-term plan for the development
      of NMSI of TUBITAK so as to enable it to meet industrial needs
      for primary standards in the measurement fields of dimensional
      metrology, electrical, mechanical, thermal and pressure,



      volume and mass and optics, through: (i) expansion of techni-
      cal staff; (ii) provision of specialized training; (iii) prov-
      ision of equipment; and (iv) construction of physical facili-
      ty; and (b) a program over the years from 1991 through 1993 to
      improve the overall efficiency of TUBITAK’s operations.

2.    Implementation of medium-term plan by TSE for the introduction
      of management and coordination procedures in the MSTQ system,
      including: (i) the establishment near Istanbul of a center for
      quality assurance training and certification, including the
      provision of training facilities, calibration equipment and
      testing and applied research laboratories in the electrical,
      chemical environmental, information, electronic, mechanical,
      packaging and construction materials fields; and (ii) imple-
      mentation of training in the fields of quality assessment,
      computer applications, supplier quality assurance and produce-
      rs’ liability; (iii) establishment of a modern financial and
      management information system; and (iv) initiation, through
      NQC, of a media campaign to increase awareness of the impor-
      tance of product quality assurance.

3.    The conversion of NQC into the national accreditation council
      (NAC), including the provision of training, equipment and
      technical assistance required for the start of its operation.

4.    The establishment of a professional institute for quality
      assurance to be responsible for training of managers, techni-
      cians and assessors on quality assurance, creation of profes-
      sional qualifications in the field and tracking on behalf of
      its members of international development in the MSTQ systems.

Part B:     Technological Research and Development

1.    Implementation by the Foundation of studies of aspects related
      to the competitiveness of Turkish industry in a changing
      international marketplace. The studies shall deal with such
      subjects as the export prospects for the auto components
      industry, competition in the OECD textile industry, the
      technological spin-offs from the defense industry, energy
      conservation technology, opportunities in the European
      consumer electronics industry and key issues in research and
      development.

2.    Provision by the Foundation, through diverse financial
      instruments, of seed capital for projects which have the
      potential of developing Turkey’s technology infrastructure.

Part C:     Venture Capital

      The adoption by the Borrower, acting through CMB, within three
      months of the enactment of the necessary revision to CMB’s
      law, of a legal framework to regulate the establishment and
      operation of venture capital enterprises, covering, inter
      alia, the legal structure and management arrangements for such
      enterprises, their financial guidelines and registration,
      audit and reporting requirements, and the supervisory authori-
      ty of CMB over their activities.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*

On each April 15 and October 15

      beginning October 15, 1996



      through October 15, 2007                  4,165,000

On April 15, 2008                               4,205,000

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:



      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.  (a)If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank



shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 5

              Implementation of Part B of the Project

      The following are the requirements relating to the imple-
mentation of Part B of the Project and which shall be set forth in
the subsidiary agreement to be concluded between the Borrower and
the Foundation pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;

A.    General Requirements

1.    The Foundation shall be responsible for the carrying out of
      Part B of the Project.

2.    The Foundation shall: (a) prepare in accordance with criteria
      and time schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
      and furnish to the Bank an initial list of the studies to be
      carried out in the fields specified in Part B (1) of the
      Project, including an outline of the arrangements and time-
      schedules for the carrying out of such studies; (b) make any
      deletion from or addition to such list in agreement with the
      Bank; and (c) undertake each such study in accordance with
      terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Applicants for financial support from the Foundation under
      Part B (2) of the Project will have to demonstrate their
      technical, managerial and financial capacity to carry out the
      proposed investment and that such investments have identi-
      fiable markets.

4.    The Foundation shall: (a) prepare, in accordance with a time
      schedule satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower
      and the Bank guidelines for the operational procedures to be
      followed by the Foundation in financing investments under
      Part B (2) of the Project, including procedures for utilizing
      the findings of studies undertaken under Part B (1) of the
      Project in formulating the overall direction and programs of
      the Foundation; and (b) prepare, in accordance with a time
      schedule satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower
      and the Bank the initial list of projects to be financed under
      Part B (2) of the Project.

5.    The Foundation shall carry out a personnel development plan,
      satisfactory to the Bank, for upgrading the skills of its
      staff, which shall include the appointment of a Secretary
      General for the Foundation to assume executive respon-
      sibilities with respect to the implementation of Part B of the
      Project.

6.    The Foundation shall require the recipient of financial
      assistance under Part B (2) of the Project, to procure goods
      included in such assistance: (a) in accordance with inter-



      national competitive bidding procedures compatible with the
      procedures referred to in Part A of Section I of Schedule 1 to
      this Agreement, when such goods are to be procured under
      contracts estimated each to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
      more; (b) in accordance with limited international bidding
      procedures compatible with the procedures referred to in Part
      C (1) of Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, when such
      goods are of specialized nature and are to be procured under
      contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of more than
      $250,000 but less than $1,000,000; or (c) on the basis of
      comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of at
      least three qualified suppliers, where such goods are to be
      procured under contracts estimated each to cost the equivalent
      of not more than $250,000.

7.    The Foundation shall gradually raise the levels of fees for
      its services so that the amount collected on account of such
      fees shall be sufficient to cover not less than 20% and 33% of
      the Foundation’s administrative costs for the years 1993 and
      1995, respectively.

B.    Audit

1.    The Foundation shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
      reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
      operations, resources and expenditures under the Project.

2.    The Foundation shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (1) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Borrower and the Bank as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, the
                  report of such audit by said auditors of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Borrower and the Bank such other
                  information concerning said records and accounts
                  as well as the audit thereof, as the Borrower or
                  the Bank, as the case may be, the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.

C.    Procurement under Part B of the Project

1.    Procurement of Goods

      (a)   International Competitive Bidding

            Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
      procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
      consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
      "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
      published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

      (b)   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

            In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
      procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
      Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
      with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
      2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appen-
      dix 2 thereto.

      (c)   Other Procurement Procedures

            (i)   Goods of specialized nature or estimated to cost



                  the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 may be
                  procured under contracts awarded through limited
                  international bidding procedures on the basis of
                  evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
                  list of at least three qualified suppliers eligi-
                  ble under the Guidelines and in accordance with
                  procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
                  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55
                  and 2.56 thereof).

           (ii)   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent
                  of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
                  amount not to exceed the equivalent of $9,000,-
                  000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
                  the basis of comparison of price quotations
                  solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
                  eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
                  procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (d)   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

             (i)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
                  the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the proce-
                  dures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
                  dix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where pay-
                  ments for such contract are to be made out of the
                  Special Account, such procedures shall be modi-
                  fied to ensure that the two conformed copies of
                  the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
                  pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be fur-
                  nished to the Bank prior to the making of the
                  first payment out of the Special Account in
                  respect of such contract.

             (ii) With respect to each contract not governed by the
                  preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
                  paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
                  lines shall apply. Where payments for such con-
                  tract are to be made out of the Special Account,
                  such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
                  the two conformed copies of the contract together
                  with the other information required to be fur-
                  nished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
                  shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
                  evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.

            (iii) The provisions of preceding subparagraph (b)
                  shall not apply to contracts on account of which
                  the Bank has authorized withdrawals on the basis
                  of statements of expenditures.

2.    Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Foundation in the carrying out of its
activities under Part B of the Project, the Foundation shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.