World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3282 IND

                (Fertilizer Restructuring Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated January 16, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3282 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   "Statement" means the letter dated October 10, 1990,
from the Borrower setting out a comprehensive set of policies to
govern the development of the fertilizer sector in the medium term
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the principles contained
in the Statement;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by P.T.
Petrokimia Gresik (Persero) (hereinafter called Gresik) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to Gresik part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;

      (D)   Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by P.T.
Pupuk Iskandar Muda (Persero) (hereinafter called PIM) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to PIM part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;

      (E)   Part B.2 of the Project will be carried out by P.T.
Pupuk Kalimantan Timur (Persero) (hereinafter called Kaltim) with
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Kaltim part of the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement;

      (F)   Part B.3 of the Project will be carried out by P.T.
Pupuk Kujang (Persero) (hereinafter called Kujang) with the Bor-
rower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to Kujang part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and

      (G)   Part B.4 of the Project will be carried out by P.T.
Pupuk Sriwidjaja (Persero) (hereinafter called Pusri) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to Pusri part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Gresik Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and Gresik, and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith amongst the Bank and PIM,
Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Gresik Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Gresik of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Gresik Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank
and PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Gresik Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and P.T. Petrokimia Gresik
(Persero) pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Gresik Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (d)   "PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and P.T. Pupuk Iskandar Muda
(Persero) pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the



same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan
Timur (Persero) pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (f)   "Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and P.T. Pupuk Kujang
(Persero) pursuant to Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
(Persero) pursuant to Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (h)   "the five state-owned Commercial Banks" means Bank
Negara Indonesia, Bank Dagang Negara, Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank
Bumi Daya, and Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia;

      (i)   "PERTAMINA" means Perusahaan Tambang Minyak Negara; and

      (j)   "Governing Laws" means Law No. 9 of 1969, Government
Regulation No. 12 of 1969, Government Regulation No. 19 of 1975,
Government Regulation No. 29 of 1977, Government Regulation No. 3 of
1983, Presidential Decree No. 64/M of 1988, and any other legal
provisions in force at any time governing the organization and
operations of Gresik, PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri, as any of them
may be amended or supplemented from time to time.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred twenty-one million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($221,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semes-
ter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.



      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall:

            (i)    carry out, or cause to be carried out, the
                   Project in accordance with the Statement;

           (ii)    cause Gresik to perform all its obligations set



                   forth in the Gresik Project Agreement, shall
                   take or cause to be taken all action, including
                   the provision of funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                   enable Gresik to perform such obligations, and
                   shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                   which would prevent or interfere with such
                   performance;

          (iii)    cause PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each to
                   perform all their obligations set forth in the
                   Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable PIM, Kaltim,
                   Kujang and Pusri each to perform such obliga-
                   tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken
                   any action which would prevent or interfere with
                   such performance;

           (iv)    through its Directorate General of Basic
                   Chemical Industry of its Ministry of Industry,
                   carry out Part C of the Project with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                   appropriate administrative and financial
                   practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
                   the funds, facili-ties, services and other
                   resources required for such Part of the Project;
                   and

            (v)    provide, or cause to be provided, to Gresik in a
                   timely manner and under terms and conditions
                   satisfactory to the Bank, the required natural
                   gas to enable Gresik to carry out Part A.1 of
                   the Project.

      (b)   For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend to
Gresik an amount equivalent to $126,300,000 (the Part A.1 Subsidiary
Loan), under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Gresik, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include:

            (i)    interest on the Part A.1 Subsidiary Loan shall
                   be payable at a variable rate per annum equal to
                   the average six months interest rate per annum
                   of Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia
                   (SBI) with a three-month maturity plus one per-
                   centage point. Such rate: (A) to be adjusted on
                   January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on
                   January 1, 1991, and calculated based on the
                   average of SBI three-month maturity quotations
                   during the preceding six months, plus one
                   percentage point, and (B) not to exceed the
                   average of end-of-day quotations of the five
                   state-owned Commercial Banks’ three-month time
                   deposits during the same period, plus one
                   percentage point;

           (ii)    the Part A.1 Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
                   over a period of fifteen years, including a
                   grace period of five years;

          (iii)    Gresik shall pay the Borrower a commitment
                   charge on the undisbursed portion of the Part
                   A.1 Sub-sidiary Loan at a per annum rate
                   identical to the rate paid by the Borrower to
                   the Bank pur-suant to Section 2.04 of this
                   Agreement; and

           (iv)    the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                   Borrower.



      (c)   For purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend to
Gresik an amount equivalent to $9,800,000 (the Part A.2 Subsidiary
Loan), under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Gresik, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include:

            (i)    interest on the Part A.2 Subsidiary Loan shall
                   be payable at a variable rate per annum equal to
                   the average six months interest rate per annum
                   of Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia
                   (SBI) with a three-month maturity plus one
                   percentage point. Such rate: (A) to be adjusted
                   on January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing
                   on January 1, 1991, and calculated based on the
                   average of SBI three-month maturity quotations
                   during the preceding six months, plus one per-
                   centage point, and (B) not to exceed the average
                   of end-of-day quotations of the five state-owned
                   Commercial Banks’ three-month time deposits
                   during the same period, plus one percentage
                   point;

           (ii)    the Part A.2 Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
                   over a period of ten years, including a grace
                   period of three years;

          (iii)    Gresik shall pay the Borrower a commitment
                   charge on the undisbursed portion of the Part
                   A.2 Sub-sidiary Loan at a per annum rate
                   identical to the rate paid by the Borrower to
                   the Bank pursuant to Section 2.04 of this
                   Agreement; and

           (iv)    the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                   Borrower.

      (d)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to PIM an amount equivalent to $10,700,000 (the Subsidiary
Loan), under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PIM, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include:

            (i)    interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable
                   at a variable rate per annum equal to the
                   average six months interest rate per annum of
                   Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI)
                   with a three-month maturity plus one percentage
                   point. Such rate: (A) to be adjusted on January
                   1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on January
                   1, 1991, and calculated based on the average of
                   SBI three-month maturity quotations during the
                   preceding six months, plus one percentage point,
                   and (B) not to exceed the average of end-of-day
                   quotations of the five state-owned Commercial
                   Banks’ three-month time deposits during the same
                   period, plus one percentage point;

           (ii)    the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a
                   period of ten years, including a grace period of
                   three years;

          (iii)    PIM shall pay the Borrower a commitment charge
                   on the undisbursed portion of the Subsidiary
                   Loan at a per annum rate identical to the rate
                   paid by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to
                   Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and

           (iv)    the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                   Borrower.



      (e)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to Kaltim an amount equivalent to $37,100,000 (the Subsidiary
Loan), under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Kaltim, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include:

            (i)    interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable
                   at a variable rate per annum equal to the
                   average six months interest rate per annum of
                   Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI)
                   with a three-month maturity plus one percentage
                   point. Such rate: (A) to be adjusted on January
                   1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on January
                   1, 1991, and calculated based on the average of
                   SBI three-month maturity quotations during the
                   pre-ceding six months, plus one percentage
                   point, and (B) not to exceed the average of end-
                   of-day quotations of the five state-owned
                   Commercial Banks’ three-month time deposits
                   during the same period, plus one percentage
                   point;

           (ii)    the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a
                   period of ten years, including a grace period of
                   three years;

          (iii)    Kaltim shall pay the Borrower a commitment
                   charge on the undisbursed portion of the
                   Subsidiary Loan at a per annum rate identical to
                   the rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank
                   pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and

           (iv)    the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                   Borrower.

      (f)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to Kujang an amount equivalent to $12,700,000 (the Subsidiary
Loan), under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Kujang, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include:

            (i)    interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable
                   at a variable rate per annum equal to the
                   average six months interest rate per annum of
                   Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI)
                   with a three-month maturity plus one percentage
                   point. Such rate: (A) to be adjusted on January
                   1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on January
                   1, 1991, and calculated based on the average of
                   SBI three-month maturity quotations during the
                   pre-ceding six months, plus one percentage
                   point, and (B) not to exceed the average of end-
                   of-day quotations of the five state-owned
                   Commercial Banks’ three-month time deposits
                   during the same period, plus one percentage
                   point;

           (ii)    the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a
                   period of ten years, including a grace period of
                   three years;

          (iii)    Kujang shall pay the Borrower a commitment
                   charge on the undisbursed portion of the
                   Subsidiary Loan at a per annum rate identical to
                   the rate paid by the Borrower to the Bank
                   pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and

           (iv)    the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                   Borrower.

      (g)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
relend to Pusri an amount equivalent to $25,100,000 (the Subsidiary



Loan), under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Pusri, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include:

            (i)    interest on the Subsidiary Loan shall be payable
                   at a variable rate per annum equal to the
                   average six months interest rate per annum of
                   Bank Indonesia’s Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (SBI)
                   with a three-month maturity plus one percentage
                   point. Such rate: (A) to be adjusted on January
                   1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on January
                   1, 1991, and calculated based on the average of
                   SBI three-month maturity quotations during the
                   pre-ceding six months, plus one percentage
                   point, and (B) not to exceed the average of end-
                   of-day quotations of the five state-owned
                   Commercial Banks’ three-month time deposits
                   during the same period, plus one percentage
                   point;

           (ii)    the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a
                   period of ten years, including a grace period of
                   three years;

          (iii)    Pusri shall pay the Borrower a commitment charge
                   on the undisbursed portion of the Subsidiary
                   Loan at a per annum rate identical to the rate
                   paid by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to
                   Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and

           (iv)    the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
                   Borrower.

      (h)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Gresik
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and the Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
of the Gresik Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the PIM Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Kujang Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, and the Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or
any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of:

      (a)   Part A of the Project shall be carried out by Gresik
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Gresik Project Agreement;

      (b)   Part B.1 of the Project shall be carried out by PIM
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement;

      (c)   Part B.2 of the Project shall be carried out by Kaltim
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement;

      (d)   Part B.3 of the Project shall be carried out by Kujang
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement; and

      (e)   Part B.4 of the Project shall be carried out by Pusri
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. For purposes of coordination and supervision of



each of the studies under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than May 1, 1991, establish Steering Committees, each with
a membership to include relevant Directors from the Borrower’s
Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Industry; Minister Coordinator
for Economics, Financial and Industrial Affairs, and for the
Supervision of Development; and Ministry of Population and the
Environment.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than March 1,
1992, complete the studies under Part C of the Project, and review
jointly with the Bank the results and recommendations of each of the
studies not later than sixty days after their finalization, and,
thereafter, implement such recommendations pursuant to action plans
satisfactory to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Gresik shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Gresik Project Agreement.

      (b)   Either PIM, Kaltim, Kujang or Pusri shall have failed to
perform any of their obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that either Gresik, PIM, Kaltim,
Kujang or Pusri will be able to perform its obligations under the
Gresik Project Agreement or the Project Agreement, respectively.

      (d)   any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Gresik to perform any of its obliga-tions
under the Gresik Project Agreement.

      (e)   any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of PIM to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (f)   any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Kaltim to perform any of its obliga-tions
under the Project Agreement.

      (g)   any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Kujang to perform any of its obliga-tions
under the Project Agreement.

      (h)   any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of Pusri to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (i)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of either Gresik, PIM, Kaltim, Kujang or Pusri or for the suspension
of their operations.

      (j)   A situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Statement, or a significant part thereof, will
be carried out.

      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period



of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g),
(h), (i), or (j) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Gresik Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Gresik;

      (b)   that the PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and PIM;

      (c)   that the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Kaltim;

      (d)   that the Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Kujang; and

      (e)   that the Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Pusri.

      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Gresik Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by Gresik, and is legally binding upon Gresik in
accordance with its terms;

      (b)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri, and is legally binding
upon PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri in accordance with its terms;

      (c)   that the Gresik Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Gresik and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Gresik in accordance with its terms;

      (d)   that the PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PIM and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PIM in accordance with its terms;

      (e)   that the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kaltim and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Kaltim in accordance with its terms;

      (f)   that the Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kujang and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Kujang in accordance with its terms;
and

      (g)   that the Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Pusri and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Pusri in accordance with its terms.

      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is



designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY               44319 DEPKEU -IA
                   Jakarta                   45799 DJMLN -IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                   Cable address:          Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed



(1) Under Part A of the
    Project:

    (a) Equipment and
        materials:

        (i) Part A.1 of       103,800,000       100% of foreign
            the Project                         expenditures,
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory costs),
                                                and 60% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

       (ii) Part A.2 of         7,800,000       100% of foreign
            the Project                         expenditures,
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory costs),
                                                and 60% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

    (b) Engineering ser-
        vices and licenses:

        (i) Part A.1 of         21,800,000      100%
            the Project

       (ii) Part A.2 of          1,700,000      100%
            the Project

    (c) Consultants’
        services:

        (i) Part A.1 of    700,000      100%
            the Project

       (ii) Part A.2 of            300,000      100%
            the Project

(2) Under Part B of the
    Project:

    (a) Equipment and
        materials:

        (i) Part B.1 of          9,200,000      100% of foreign
            the Project                         expenditures,
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                costs), and 60%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category           Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed



     (ii) Part B.2 of          33,600,000      100% of foreign
          the Project                          expenditures,
                                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               costs), and 60%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally

     (iii) Part B.3 of         11,200,000      100% of foreign
           the Project                         expenditures,
                                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               costs), and
                                               60% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally

      (iv) Part B.4 of         21,200,000      100% of foreign
           the Project                         expenditures,
                                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               costs), and
                                               60% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally

    (b) Engineering ser-
        vices and licenses:

        (i) Part B.1 of         1,250,000      100%
            the Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
         Category        Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed

       (ii) Part B.2 of         3,250,000       100%
            the Project

      (iii) Part B.3 of         1,250,000       100%
            the Project

       (iv) Part B.4 of         3,650,000       100%
            the Project

(c)   Consultants’
      services:

      (i) Part B.1 of             250,000       100%
          the Project

     (ii) Part B.2 of             250,000       100%
          the Project

    (iii) Part B.3 of             250,000       100%
          the Project

     (iv) Part B.4 of             250,000       100%
          the Project
                               ___________

            TOTAL              221,700,000
                               ===========



2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $22,170,000, may be made in respect of all Categories on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
January 15, 1990;

      (b)   payments for expenditures under Category (1) until a
contract, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide Gresik with the
required natural gas for carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, has
been executed on behalf of Gresik and PERTAMINA;

      (c)   payments for expenditures under Categories (1)(a)(ii)
and (1)(b)(ii) until each of the appraisal reports and the environ-
mental impact assessments for the modernization of Gresik’s plants
has been found satisfactory to the Bank;

      (d)   payments for expenditures under Categories (2)(a)(i) and
(2)(b)(i) until the appraisal report and the environmental impact
assessment of the optimization investment has been found
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (e)   payments for expenditures under Categories (2)(a)(ii)
and (2)(b)(ii) until the appraisal report and environmental impact
assessment of the respective optimization investment has been found
satisfactory to the Bank;

      (f)   payments for expenditures under Categories (2)(a)(iii)
and (2)(b)(iii) until the appraisal report and the environmental
impact assessment of the respective optimization investment has been
found satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (g)   payments for expenditures under Categories (2)(a)(iv)
and (2)(b)(iv) until the appraisal report and the environmental
impact assessment of the respective optimization investment has been
found satisfactory to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(a) implement the Statement; (b) carry out a priority fertilizer
investment program; (c) identify the scope for improved efficiency
in fertilizer marketing and distribution; and (d) assess the ferti-
lizer industry’s environmental impact and standards and develop an
environmental management program therefor.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:
1.    Construction of a new ammonia/urea plant at Gresik with a
capacity of about 1,350 tons per day of ammonia and about 1,400 tons
per day of urea, including provision of engineering services and
licenses; and provision of highly qualified fertilizer engineers to
assist in the overall carrying out of this Part of the Project.



2.    Modernization of Gresik’s existing fertilizer plants, inter
alia, to improve plant output, performance and maintenance, and to
ameliorate environmental pollution, including provision of engineer-
ing services and licenses; and provision of highly qualified ferti-
lizer engineers to assist in the overall carrying out of this Part
of the Project.

Part B:

1.    Carrying out of optimization investments to, inter alia,
improve production, energy and raw material efficiency, plant main-
tenance, and pollution control in PIM’s fertilizer plants, including
provision of engineering services and licenses; and provision of
highly qualified fertilizer engineers to assist in the carrying out
of this Part of the Project.

2.    Carrying out of optimization investments to, inter alia,
improve production, energy and raw material efficiency, plant
maintenance, and pollution control in Kaltim’s fertilizer plants,
including provision of engineering services and licences; and
provision of highly qualified fertilizer engineers to assist in the
carrying out of this Part of the Project.
3.    Carrying out of optimization investments to, inter alia,
improve production, energy and raw material efficiency, plant
maintenance, and pollution control in Kujang’s fertilizer plants,
including provision of engineering services and licenses; and
provision of highly qualified fertilizer engineers to assist in the
carrying out of this Part of the Project.

4.    Carrying out of optimization investments to, inter alia,
improve production, energy and raw material efficiency, plant
maintenance, and pollution control in Pusri’s fertilizer plants,
including provision of engineering services and licenses; and
provision of highly qualified fertilizer engineers to assist in the
carrying out of this Part of the Project.

Part C:

      Carrying out of studies to: (i) identify the scope for
improved efficiency in fertilizer marketing and distribution; and
(ii) assess the environmental impact and standards of the fertilizer
industry, including identification of long-term objectives for
environmental improvement and preparation of an environmental
management program.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

August 15, 1996                                  4,045,000
February 15, 1997                                4,200,000
August 15, 1997                                  4,365,000
February 15, 1998                                4,535,000
August 15, 1998                                  4,710,000
February 15, 1999                                4,890,000
August 15, 1999                                  5,080,000
February 15, 2000                                5,275,000
August 15, 2000                                  5,480,000
February 15, 2001                                5,690,000
August 15, 2001                                  5,910,000
February 15, 2002                                6,135,000
August 15, 2002                                  6,375,000
February 15, 2003                                6,620,000
August 15, 2003                                  6,875,000
February 15, 2004                                7,140,000



August 15, 2004                                  7,415,000
February 15, 2005                                7,705,000
August 15, 2005                                  8,000,000
February 15, 2006                                8,310,000
August 15, 2006                                  8,630,000
February 15, 2007                                8,965,000
August 15, 2007                                  9,310,000
February 15, 2008                                9,670,000
August 15, 2008                                 10,040,000
February 15, 2009                               10,430,000
August 15, 2009                                 10,830,000
February 15, 2010                               11,250,000
August 15, 2010                                 11,685,000
February 15, 2011                               12,135,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity