World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3409 RO

                  (Health Rehabilitation Project)

                              between

                              ROMANIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated October 7, 1991

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3409 RO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 1991, between ROMANIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;

      (b)   "DMCH" means MOH’s General Directorate for Maternal and
Child Health;
      (c)   "IMCA" means the MOH’s Institute for Mother, Child and
Adolescent;

      (d)   "Dispensary" means a primary health care unit;

      (e)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, established
within MOH and to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of
Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (f)   "FPSEU" means the Family Planning and Sex Education
Unit, established within DMCH;

      (g)   "PBNS" means the Post Basic Nursing School in Bucharest;

      (h)   "Steering Committee" means the Borrower’s Steering
Committee for Strategic Studies for Reform;

      (i)   "HSMI" means MOH’s Health Services Management Institute;

      (j)   "SHSM" means the School of Health Systems and
Management, to be established within HSMI under Part B (3) of the
Project;

      (k)   "NCHPE" means the National Center for Health Promotion
and Education, to be established under Part A (6) of the Project;

      (l)   "RHC" means a Reproductive Health Center in the health
delivery system of MOH;

      (m)   "MOI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry;

      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (o)   "Interbank Market Rate" means the foreign currency
exchange rate for the Borrower’s currency as established from time
to time in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s Law
No. 15 of the year 1990.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to



this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars (or such other convertible currency as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon) a special deposit account
in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."



            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH
and MOI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate public health, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of



expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (a) prepare and review with
the Bank, by September 30, 1992, a plan for contraceptive marketing
and distribution, and

      (b)   make adjustments to the fees charged by the Borrower’s
health institutions for performance of reproductive health
interventions and take other appropriate measures, all designed to
make the use of contraceptives, from a financial standpoint, a
preferred measure for family planning.

      Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall (i) ensure that all drugs
procured under Part A (4) of the Project shall be sold to the
Borrower’s health institutions and pharmacies at least at their port
of entry (CIF) price, converted into the Borrower’s currency at the
market exchange rate, plus a suitable distribution margin, and (ii)
finalize the national drugs formulary for its pharmaceutical public
sector by March 1, 1992.

      (b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
term "market exchange rate" means the average Interbank Market Rate
during the calendar month preceding the date of payment by the
Borrower on account of drugs procured under Part A (4) of the
Project, or such other market-determined exchange rate published, on
the date of such payment, by the Borrower’s Central Bank and
acceptable to the Bank.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the PCU has been staffed in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph A (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. The date 90 days after date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the



purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            8 Doamnei Street
            Bucharest
            Romania

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  Ministry of Economy       11239 MINFIN
                    and Finance
                  Bucharest

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  ROMANIA

                  By /s/ Virgil Constantinescu
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Harinder Kohli
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Goods:                                      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures



    (a)  medical              76,000,000        100% of local
         supplies                               expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)

    (b)  equipment,           45,000,000
         materials,
         spare parts
         and vehicles

(2) Consultants’               9,000,000        100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training

(3) Unallocated               20,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               150,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expen-
ditures before that date but after April 30, 1991.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate and upgrade
the Borrower’s system for delivery of primary health care and to
initiate a major restructuring of the management and finance of its
health sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Primary Health Care

(1)   Rehabilitation of about 420 Dispensaries in rural areas, and
the provision therefor of clinical and dental equipment, educational
materials, and specialist services and fellowships.

(2)   Improving reproductive health care services through:

      (a)   provision for IMCA of (i) equipment for its Intensive
            Care Department (high risk pregnancy and neonatal) and
            Cancer Detection Center and for training of general
            practitioners, midwives and nurses, and (ii) training
            fellowships for instructors, and in new specializations,
            public communications and management,

      (b)   provision for FPSEU of audiovisual equipment and of
            technical assistance and training fellowships,

      (c)   provision of (i) equipment, educational materials,
            supplies and training for 10 RHCs, (ii) equipment and
            minor renovation work to open or upgrade about 230 RHCs



            in district and urban hospitals and polyclinics, (iii)
            technical assistance to develop training materials and
            specialized training for physicians, and (iv) contra-
            ceptives, and

      (d)   upgrading the diagnostic and curative capacity of about
            50 maternity/neonatal referral units, including the
            provision of equipment and training.

(3)  Strengthening pre- and in-service training for nurses and
physicians through:

      (a)   provision for PBNS of technical assistance, training
            fellowships, equipment and software for the development
            of training programs,

      (b)   provision of audiovisual and teaching materials and
            equipment for about 41 nursing schools, and

      (c)   provision of training equipment and materials, fellow-
            ships and technical assistance to improve continuing
            education for physicians.

(4)   (a)   Provision of (i) essential drugs and other medical
            consumables, (ii) equipment to ensure the continued
            production of vaccines and of safe blood products, and
            (iii) technical assistance and computer equipment and
            materials to assist the regional distribution systems
            for medical supplies in stock management, warehousing,
            distribution and accounting.

      (b)   preparation, on the basis of a comprehensive study, of
            a strategic plan for the restructuring and rehabilita-
            tion of the domestic pharmaceutical industry.

(5)   Improving emergency services through the provision of (a)
communications equipment for about 60 Dispensaries, (b) ambulances
and spare parts for the district emergency transport systems, and
(c) technical assistance to review the emergency transport system at
the district level.

(6)   Improving health awareness and population’s participation in
health care through: (a) establishment, at the Institute of Hygiene
and Public Health in Bucharest, of a National Center for Health
Promotion and Education (NCHPE) and the provision for said Center of
(i) fellowships for advanced training, (ii) technical assistance in
management and in evaluation and monitoring, and (iii) equipment for
the production of health promotion and training materials, (b)
provision of fellowships and office equipment for a medical ethics
unit to be established at MOH, (c) carrying out of measures for
health promotion at the district level, including (i) training
programs for staff working at district health education labora-
tories, and (ii) provision of equipment for such laboratories for
the production of local health education and promotion materials,
(d) establishment of a fund to support initiatives by local and non-
governmental groups for health promotion, and (e) provision of
technical assistance, fellowships, equipment and materials for the
promotion of environmental health.

Part B:     Restructuring of the Finance and Delivery Systems of
            Health Services

(1)   Preparation and the start of implementation of a new national
health strategy, including: (a) carrying out of studies of health
policies and the development, on the basis thereof, of reform
proposals, (b) preparation by the Steering Committee, with the
assistance of experts, of a time-phased plan for implementation of
such reforms, including specification of the resource requirement
thereof, (c) carrying out of a two-year pilot decentralization
program in four districts, including the provision for such
districts of technical assistance in the preparation and
implementation of their action plans for delivery of health care,



fellowships in management of health facilities and equipment and
materials, and (d) introduction of operating procedures to
decentralize the management of the system for health services.

(2)   Development of a national health information system, including
the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment
required for initiating the operation thereof.

(3)   Establishment within HSMI of the School of Health Systems and
Management (SHSM) to be responsible for training of health care
managers, and the provision for HSMI and SHSM of fellowships and
equipment.

                           *   *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 1 and December 1

     beginning June 1, 1997
     through December 1, 2008                   6,250,000

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity

More than 15 years                               1.00
     before maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods



Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    The Borrower shall enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), under which
UNICEF shall act as an agent of the Borrower for the procurement of
drugs and consumables, in accordance with the procedures referred to
in paragraph 1 of this Part A.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Romania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Drugs and equipment which are available in UNICEF’s warehouses
may be supplied directly by UNICEF to the Borrower under arrange-
ments and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Items of equipment, drugs, contraceptives or disposable
supplies estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $15,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

3.    (a)   Software and educational materials, estimated to cost in
the aggregate the equivalent of not more than $2,700,000, (b) spare
parts required for compatibility with existing equipment, estimated
to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than $3,000,000,
and (c) proprietary drugs, contraceptives and disposable supplies,
estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than
$4,900,000, may be procured under contracts to be concluded with the
suppliers thereof on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall



not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause MOH and MOI to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

A.    Project Coordination

      MOH shall coordinate the carrying out of the Project through
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established and to be maintained
within it, and shall, for the purpose:

      (1)   ensure that the staffing of PCU shall at least include
a Project coordinator, a procurement specialist, an accountant and
a secretary; and

      (2)   assign to PCU the responsibility for coordinating the
procurement of goods and services under the Project, the maintenance
of Project accounts and arranging for the audit thereof and liaising
with the Bank for purposes of Project administration and
supervision.

B.    Project Implementation

      (1)   The Borrower shall cause MOH (a) to ensure the adequate
staffing of FPSEU by December 31, 1991, and (b) to prepare, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comment, by July 1, 1992, a career
development plan for nurses, and to initiate the implementation of
such plan, by January 1, 1993, taking into account the Bank’s
comments thereon.

      (2)   The Borrower shall cause MOH to assign to its
Directorate of Human Resources two additional professionals with
relevant qualifications and experience to be responsible for
coordination of training under Part A (3) of the Project.

      (3)   The Borrower shall cause MOI (a) to prepare, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and review with the Bank, by
December 31, 1992, the strategic plan for the pharmaceutical
industry, referred to in Part A (4) (b) of the Project, including a
time schedule for the implementation thereof, and (b) based on such
review, to proceed thereafter with the implementation of such plan
in accordance with such time schedule.

      (4)   The Borrower shall cause MOH, by December 31, 1992: (a)
to organize and staff NCHPE in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
(b) to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, for its review, a plan for the carrying out
of measures included under Part A (6) (b), (c) and (d) of the
Project, and (c) thereafter to carry out such plan, taking into
account the Bank’s comments thereon.

      (5)   The Borrower shall cause MOH: (a) to complete, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the studies referred to
in Part B (1) (a) of the Project and to prepare, on the basis
thereof, proposals for reform in the health policy areas referred to



in said Part B (1) (a) of the Project, and (b) to review such
proposals with the Bank, by December 31, 1992, and to prepare, on
the basis of such review, by July 1, 1993, an action program,
including a time schedule for the implementation of such proposals.

      (6)   The Borrower shall cause MOH: (a) to introduce, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 1991, the operating
procedures, referred to in Part B (1) (d) of the Project, for
decentralizing the management of the system for health services, (b)
to proceed with the implementation of the pilot program referred to
in Part B (1) (c) of the Project, by January 1, 1992 and to furnish
to the Bank semiannual reports on progress in the carrying out of
such program, (c) to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, for its comments, by December
31, 1993, a report evaluating such program and discussing a plan for
its introduction on a country-wide basis, and (d) to proceed
thereafter with the implementation of such plan, taking into account
the Bank’s comments thereon.

      (7)   The Borrower shall cause MOH, by March 1, 1992: (a) to
ensure the issuance of appropriate certifications for the program
and graduates of SHSM, and (b) to prepare, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and review with the Bank a system of
incentives designed to attract qualified individuals to the career
of health management.

C.    Reports

      The Borrower shall cause MOH: (a) to prepare and furnish to
the Bank semiannual reports, in accordance with a format satis-
factory to the Bank, on the status of Project implementation and
annual reports evaluating, on the basis of indicators agreeable to
the Bank, the impact of the Project, and (b) to undertake jointly
with the Bank, in June 1993, a mid-term review of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.



      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                  the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                  respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.



      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.