World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3456 TUN

             (Higher Education Restructuring Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 11, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3456 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1992, between the REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS (B) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "MES" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and
Sciences (Minist�re de l'Education et des Sciences) established
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 91-270, dated February 20,
1991;

      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958;

      (c)   "ISET" means any post-secondary Higher Institute of
Technology (Institut Sup�rieur des Etudes Technologiques) to be
established by the Borrower under Part A.1 of the Project, and the
term "ISETs" means, collectively, all of the said ISETs;

      (d)   "Law" means the Borrower's law (loi cadre) establishing
the general legal framework for the creation of the ISETs as
scientific and technological public institutions (Etablissements
Publics 
 Caract�re Scientifique et Technologique) and the
Borrower's law establishing the ISETs of Tunis, Sousse and Sfax;

      (e)   "ISTs" means, collectively, the existing Higher
Technical Institutes (Institut Sup�rieur Technique) to be converted
into ISETs under Part A.1 of the Project;

      (f)   "PNRU" means the Borrower's National Program for
University Improvement (Programme National de R�novation Univer-
sitaire) to be implemented by the MES pursuant to Part B of the
Project;

      (g)   "Sub-project" means any sub-project to be funded under
the PNRU;

      (h)   "CRU" means the Borrower's Committee for University
Improvement (Comit� de R�novation Universitaire) established
pursuant to the MES Decision No. CAB/259, dated December 31, 1991,
to be responsible for the selection of the Sub-projects eligible for
PNRU funding;

      (i)   "SAGES" means the Normative Resource Allocation System
(Syst�me d'Analyse et de Gestion de l'Enseignement Sup�rieur) to be
established by the MES pursuant to Part C.1 of the Project;

      (j)   "higher education institution" means any of the
Borrower's post-secondary universities, faculties, institutes and
schools, including the ISETs and ISTs;

      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (l)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period



commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.



      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, educational, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment as soon as available, but in any case not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year, a
report, in such detail and of such scope as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, on the expenditures incurred by the Borrower
in carrying out the Project during the preceding Fiscal Year and on
the projected expenditures to be incurred in connection thereto
during the following Fiscal Year.

      Section 3.04. During the execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a Project
Coordinator within the MES, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to both the Bank and the Borrower, who shall have
overall responsibility for: (i) administrative coordination of the
Project, including the preparation of a detailed implementation
schedule for each Fiscal Year; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of all
Project activities, including procurement, disbursement and the
preparation of annual progress reports pursuant to implementation
and performance attainment indicators satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) liaison with the Bank for the purposes of Project implementa-
tion.

      Section 3.05. During the execution of the Project, the



Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, the CRU, which
shall include representatives of the MES, the teaching staff of the
higher education institutions, and individuals who represent the
economic and social sectors. The CRU shall be responsible for
appraising and selecting the Sub-projects to be funded under the
PNRU, in accordance with the selection criteria and operational
indicators set forth in the procedural manual to be prepared by the
Borrower, as such manual may be modified with the Bank’s prior
approval upon the request of the CRU.

      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for
its prior review and approval: (i) the first ten Sub-project
proposals, regardless of the cost thereof, selected by the CRU and
approved by the MES for PNRU funding; and (ii) Sub-project proposals
selected by the CRU and approved by the MES for PNRU funding
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.

      (b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its informa-
tion a list of other Sub-projects selected by the CRU and approved
by the MES, including a brief description of the Sub-project, its
cost and identification number.

      Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that:

            (i)    beginning with the FY 1995 budget, the MES’s
                   annual operating and investment budget for
                   higher education shall be prepared and allocated
                   among higher education institutions on the basis
                   of the SAGES;

           (ii)    the MES’s organizational units to be created
                   under Parts C.3 and C.5 of the Project shall be
                   formalized and provided with resources adequate
                   to carry out their responsibilities not later
                   than December 31, 1993;

          (iii)    suitable pedagogic programs to be followed by
                   each of the ISETs’ departments shall be defined,
                   on the basis, inter alia, of surveys of local
                   enterprises, economic development prospects and
                   regional development characteristics, not later
                   than December 31, 1993; and

           (iv)    the preliminary study defining the content and
                   duration of the training programs to be provided
                   under Part C.4 of the Project shall be complet-
                   ed, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
                   the Bank, prior to the implementation thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the steps
taken to implement the measures referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to
publish in its Journal Officiel, not later than December 31, 1992,
the law changing the present legal personality of the ISTs of Nabeul
and Gab�s to that of an ISET.

      Section 3.09. Following the establishment of the ISETs, the
Borrower shall take all action necessary to maintain in force the
Law, the law referred to in Section 3.08 hereof, decrees and other
regulations relating to the establishment and operation of the
ISETs.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources



and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project,
or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
                   quested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such Fiscal Year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   The Borrower shall have published in its Journal
Officiel: (i) the Law; and (ii) the decrees necessary for the
implementation of the Law, all in form and content satisfactory to
the Bank;

      (b)   The Borrower shall have furnished, or shall have caused
to be furnished to the Bank the procedural manual referred to in
Section 3.05 hereof, in a form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank;



      (c)   The Borrower shall have established, or shall have
caused to be established within the MES, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, the organizational units responsible for
the implementation of the ISETs program referred to in Part A of the
Project and the PNRU program referred to in Part B of the Project;
and

      (d)   The Borrower shall have appointed, or shall have caused
to be appointed, within the MES: (i) the Project Coordinator
referred to in Section 3.04 hereof; (ii) a manager to the Unit for
Evaluation, Projects and Programs; and (iii) a manager to the Unit
for Technological Studies.

      Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Regional Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning and Regional Development
            Place Ali Zouaoui
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   351666                   15117

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Tunis, Republic of Tunisia, as
of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                         By /s/ Mustapha K. Nabli
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                         By /s/ C. K. Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                          SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) For Part A of
    the Project

    (a)  Civil Works,         13,200,000        40%
         including
         architects’ fees

    (b)  Equipment,           17,200,000        100% of foreign
         furniture and                          expenditures, 100%
         educational                            of local expendi-
         materials                              tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

    (c)  Consultants’         11,000,000        100% of foreign
         services                               expenditures and
         and training,                          85% of local
         including scholar-                     expenditures
         ships and
         fellowships

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(2) For Part B of
    the Project

         Equipment,           23,400,000        100% of foreign
         furniture,                             expenditures,
         educational                            100% of local
         materials,                             expenditures
         consultants’                           (ex-factory
         services                               cost) and 85%
         and training,                          of local expendi-
         including scholar-                     tures for other
         ships and fellowships                  items procured
                                                locally

(3) For Part C of
    the Project

    (a)  Equipment,            1,100,000        100% of foreign
         vehicles and                           expenditures,
         educational                            100% of local
         materials                              expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%



                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

    (b)  Consultants’          1,200,000        100% of foreign
         services and                           expenditures and
         training,                              85% of local
         including local                        expenditures
         scholarships and
         fellowships

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Unallocated for            7,900,000
    Parts A and C
    of the Project
                              __________

         TOTAL                75,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (1) (a) and (c), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after Sep-
tember 30, 1991.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
making its higher education system more cost-effective and respon-
sive to the needs of its labor market by: (i) increasing the number
of technical graduates; (ii) providing incentives to higher
education institutions to reform their programs and curricula; and
(iii) strengthening the higher education system’s planning and
management capacity and improving the distribution and use of
resources following a normative system for resource allocation.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Establishment of Higher Institutes of Technology (ISETs)

      Carrying out of a program to establish five (5) ISETs offering
intensive programs aimed at training technical graduates, consisting
of:

1.    Construction of three (3) new ISETs in Tunis, Sfax and Sousse,
and conversion of the ISTs in Nabeul and Gab�s into ISETs, and
provision of equipment, furniture, textbooks and technical assis-
tance.



2.    Development of a permanent training capacity for the teaching
staff of the ISETs as required to assure that said staff deliver the
appropriate learning and practical experience, through the: (i)
provision of: (A) training, including local scholarships, overseas
fellowships and stipends; and (B) pedagogical equipment, materials
and textbooks; and (ii) establishment of a unit to be responsible
for coordinating, designing and monitoring the teacher training.

3.    Provision of consultants’ services to the ISETs for: (i)
curriculum and program development; (ii) formulation of equipment
needs; (iii) training of department managers during the first year
of ISETs’ operation; and (iv) course and program monitoring and
student evaluation, including a mid-program pedagogical evaluation.

Part B:    National Program for University Improvement (PNRU)

1.    Carrying out of a program providing incentives to existing
higher education institutions to undertake programs and curricula
reform to increase their internal and external efficiency and
improve the quality of the instruction and learning process, through
funding of Sub-projects aimed, inter alia, at introducing new
undergraduate study programs, diversifying career options, improving
training programs for secondary teachers and engineers, increasing
computer availability, improving library and related services and
reorganizing post-graduate study programs, to be selected on the
basis of agreed selection criteria and operational indicators as set
forth in the PNRU procedural manual.

2.    Construction of small rehabilitation works, and provision of
equipment, furniture, educational materials and consultants’
services in respect thereof.

Part C:     Strengthening of Planning and Managerial Capabilities

      Provision of consultants’ services, office equipment,
vehicles, training, local scholarships and overseas fellowships for:

1.    Development of a normative performance-based budgetary
allocation system of human, physical and financial resources
(SAGES), consisting of the: (i) setting up of a data bank on the
existing higher education resources, organization and delivery
system; (ii) definition, on the basis of such information, of norms
to optimally allocate said resources; and (iii) introduction, at the
MES’s level, of a computerized allocation system to apportion, on
the basis of such norms, the annual higher education operating
budget and equipment among institutions.

2.    Strengthening of the managerial and maintenance capabilities
in higher education institutions in the areas of student admission
and records, course programming and facility utilization.

3.    Establishment of an evaluation body to evaluate the efficiency
of higher education programs and implementation of an accreditation
system for all new curricula proposed by higher education institu-
tions.

4.    Provision of training to university managers to enable them to
effectively carry out their newly-defined responsibilities under the
reformed university system.

5.    Strengthening of the MES through the reorganization of its
internal structure, including the establishment of a unit respon-
sible for academic and planning development, a Unit for Evaluation,
Projects and Programs, a Unit for Technological Studies, and, within
the Department of Planning and Statistics, a unit responsible for
the university management rationalization program.

                           *   *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                           SCHEDULE 3



                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      On each June 15 and December 15

            beginning December 15, 1997    3,125,000
            through June 15, 2009

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00



      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower’s
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Limited International Bidding

1.    Goods required for Part B of the Project estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of the evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three (3) qualified suppliers
eligible under the 1985 Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

Local Competitive Bidding

2.    Civil works contracts required for Part A.1 of the Project
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $34,100,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

Shopping

3.     Civil works contracts required for Part A.1 of the Project
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, and textbooks,
office, computer and pedagogical equipment required for Parts A.1
and 2, B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $6,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three (3) contractors or three (3) suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, all in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

Direct Contracting

4.    Contracts for computer software and specialized programs,
textbooks and pedagogical publications and spare parts, for which
there is only one (1) supplier identified, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,000,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the



Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $350,000; and (ii) the
first contract for goods and works to be awarded under Parts A.1,
C.1 and C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)    With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $350,000, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together
with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in reforming its higher
education system, the Borrower shall employ consultants: (i) whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) who shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants’ Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants’ Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of terms of reference, budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each, or less. In
respect of each such contract, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective evaluation and
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract, or the contract itself, is not consistent
with the Loan Agreement or the Consultants’ Guidelines, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)



and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   Eligible Expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated



to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

       Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.