World Bank Document


                                               LOAN NUMBER 3536 MA

      (Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project)

                              between

                             MALAYSIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 16, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3536 MA

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1992, between MALAYSIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 28 1992,
from the Ministry of Education of the Borrower, describing
objectives and policies designed for the development of primary and
secondary education together with a plan of action (hereinafter
called the Letter of Policy), and declaring the Borrower’s commit-
ment to the implementation of said policies and to the execution of
the program of action;

      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the
implementation during the period 1993-1996 of the Sixth Malaysia
Plan, as hereinafter defined, and the Borrower’s subsequent plan for
Primary and Secondary Education, and assist in the financing of
measures and investments to be undertaken pursuant to, or in
furtherance of, the provisions of the Letter of Policy through the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
                  arisen under which any further withdrawals
                  under the Loan would be inconsistent with
                  the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
                  the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Core Investment Program" means the program of primary
and secondary education investments under the Sixth Malaysia Plan;

      (b)   "MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;

      (c)   "Sub-project" means a sub-project under the Core
Investment Program to be carried out under the Project and to be
implemented in accordance with criteria and guidelines contained in
a letter of even date herewith entitled "General and Specific
Implementation Criteria" from the Borrower to the Bank; and

      (d)   "Sixth Malaysia Plan" means the Borrower’s plan dealing
with its educational strategy and supporting investment program for
the period 1991-1995.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and forty one million dollars
($141,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per



annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-
fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III



                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and educational practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a)  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall implement Sub-projects in accordance with guidelines
and implementation criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and procedures
and policies as indicated in the Letter of Policy and thereafter
evaluate such Sub-projects in accordance with the monitoring
indicators as contained in the Letter of Policy; and (b) shall
consult with the Bank in a timely manner in respect of any material
change of any provision contained in the Letter of Policy.

      Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall carry out the research,
studies and pilot operations under Parts A.6 and C.2 of the Project,
in accordance with arrangements and under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank.

      Section 3.05.  Not later than the commencement of school year
1993/94, the Borrower shall introduce a criterion-referenced
mathematics test for year three pupils in a representative sample of
schools, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and shall monitor and
analyze the results thereof and the progress achieved thereby.

      Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall maintain and enforce
adequate regulations to prohibit the use of cement-asbestos
materials in the construction, upgrading or rehabilitation of
schools or buildings used for educational purposes under the
Project.

      Section 3.07.  By not later than March 1, 1993, the Borrower,
through MOE, shall have entered into contractual arrangements with
appropriate institutions or universities satisfactory to the Bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying
out of Parts A.6 and C.2 of the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail



                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

            (ii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iii)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   develop mechanisms satisfactory to the Bank, and
                  thereafter apply the same to monitor, throughout
                  the implementation of the Project, the growth and
                  distribution of educational recurrent expendi-
                  tures;

           (ii)   commencing in fiscal year 1993, develop and
                  subsequently introduce efficiency measures and
                  budgetary norms satisfactory to the Bank to
                  contain the growth of educational recurrent
                  expenditures in the primary and secondary sector
                  while ensuring that the share of such expendi-
                  tures to be allocated to pedagogic materials and
                  administrative costs (including utilities) is
                  maintained at no less than the average level of
                  such expenditures during fiscal years 1991 and
                  1992; and

           (iii)  by not later than June 30, 1993, develop and
                  thereafter implement, a formula to maintain in
                  real terms the value of the per capita grants in
                  primary and secondary education at not less than
                  their 1991 level.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "educational recurrent expenditures" means the
                  annual fiscal budgetary allocation made by the
                  Borrower in its budget to MOE to finance
                  salaries, the procurement of pedagogic materials,
                  administrative costs and direct subsidies to
                  students; and

           (ii)   "per capita grants" means payments made in each
                  year by MOE to schools on a per capita basis to
                  finance pedagogic materials.

                             ARTICLE V



                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an extraordinary situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Core Investment Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            The Treasury
            Jalan Duta
            50592 Kuala Lumpur
            Malaysia

            Cable address:          Telex:

                  TREASURY                MA 30242
                  Kuala Lumpur            MA 32369

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        MALAYSIA

                        By /s/ Dato’ Abdul Majid Mohamed
                                         Authorized Representative



                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated         % of
                          (Expressed in Dollar  Expenditures
      Category                Equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Civil works               84,300,000      35%

(2)   Equipment                 26,200,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures;
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures ex-
                                                factory cost, and
                                                65% of other local
                                                expenditures

(3)   Furniture                  8,400,000      30%

(4)   Books and                  5,300,000      30%
      educational
      materials

(5)   Specialist                13,600,000      80%
      services and
      overseas
      fellowships

(6)   Research and studies       1,800,000      40%

(7)   Local training             1,200,000      40%

(8)   Operations and               200,000      40%
      administration

                               ___________

      TOTAL                    141,000,000

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   "Operations and Administration" means the operational
and administrative costs of MOE’s development and supply division
arising out of the direct implementation and monitoring of the
Project, including, inter alia, office equipment and overseas travel



costs and short-term training for MOE’s staff.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,100,000, may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after July 1, 1992.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality of,
and increase access to, primary and secondary education, and to
strengthen the efficiency of educational management.

      The Project consists of financing Sub-projects under the first
phase of the Core Investment Program, being the period from January
1, 1993 through December 31, 1996, as set forth in the following
parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Quality Improvement

1.    Rationalization and expansion of teacher-training capacity for
primary and secondary teachers by provision of about 3,000
additional places for teacher training.

2.    Provision of video, television, radio and radio-cassette
equipment to primary and secondary schools.

3.    The production and distribution of multi-media kits for class-
room use and self-paced learning modules for teachers training and
for students.

4.    Enhancement of the resource centers network by the rehabili-
tation of four (4) existing state resource centers.

5.    The provision of library materials, including books and
related library science equipment to schools.

6.    Implementation of a program of research, studies, and pilot-
operations (including pilot operations on early childhood
development and special education), with an emphasis on mathematics
and science education, small rural schools, communications
technology, and educational research.

Part B:     Increase of Educational Access

1.    The rehabilitation, construction, equipping and furnishing, as
appropriate, of approximately 4,400 primary and 3,200 secondary
classrooms.

2.    Provision of housing for about 3,000 teachers and provision of
boarding for about 20,000 primary and secondary students from rural
areas.

Part C:    Strengthening of Educational Management

1.    Implementation of a staff development program, for about 1,000
senior and middle-level educational managers and professionals to
include local and overseas training, the provision of specialist
services and the carrying out of educational studies.

2.    Upgrading of the educational management information system
through training, the provision of specialist services, studies and
the provision of equipment and software.

3.    The carrying out of a supervision program of the activities
under the Project at the State and District levels, including the
provision of specialist services, the provision of equipment and



carrying out of studies.

                     *           *           *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      On each February 1 and August 1

            beginning August 1, 1998
            through August 1, 2009         5,875,000

            and on February 1, 2010        5,875,000

___________________________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed as
                                     a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding



      Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each and
contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Suppliers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malaysia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $211,300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Goods (other than furniture) may be procured under the
following procedures:

      (a)   Contracts for goods grouped in packages costing the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,300,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

      (b)   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c)   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank or may be
supplied under existing government bulk procurement contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Books and instructional materials may be procured directly
from qualified suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded under inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Part A of this
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply, except for (i) the



standard bidding documents to be used in local competitive bidding,
and the first contracts for goods and works based on local
competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) a sample (approximately
10%) of overseas fellowships, training, consultancy contracts, which
shall be subject to prior review in accordance with paragraph 2 of
this Appendix I.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accord-
ance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.