World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3516 KO

              (Public Hospital Modernization Project)

                              between

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated October 2, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3516 KO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Action Program" means the Borrower’s Health Sector
Policies and Cost Containment Action Program agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank dated June 16, 1992;

      (b)   "Equipment Selection Committee" means the Equipment
Selection Committee established under the Loan Agreement No. 3330 KO
between the Borrower of the Bank within MOHSA (as hereinafter
defined) and referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "HMD" means the Hospital Management Division within
MOHSA (as hereinafter defined);

      (d)   "MOHSA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs;

      (e)   "MOHSA Special Account" means the account opened in the
name of MOHSA referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (f)   "Municipality" means any of the Borrower’s
Municipalities having jurisdiction over a public hospital for which
equipment is to be provided under the Project;

      (g)   "NIH" means the Borrower’s National Institute of Health
established pursuant to the Government Organization Act of 1991;

      (h)   "NIH Special Account" means the account opened in the
name of NIH referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (i)   "NMC" means the Borrower’s National Medical Center;

      (j)   "OSROK" means the Borrower’s Office of Supply;

      (k)   "Province" means any of the Borrower’s Provinces having
jurisdiction over a public hospital for which equipment is to be
provided under the Project;

      (l)   "PH" means each public hospital selected in accordance
with the ’Criteria and Procedures for PH’s’ contained in Schedule 9
of this Agreement, by the Municipalities and Provinces of the
Borrower as eligible to receive equipment under Part C of the
Project;

      (m)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
within Medical Affairs Bureau under Ministerial Decree No. 605;

      (n)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means each of the subsidiary
loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower through
MOHSA, and each of NMC, NIH and each Municipality or Province,
respectively, pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, and
such term includes all schedules supplemental to each Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means
collectively the aforementioned subsidiary loan agreements;

      (o)   "Subsidiary Loan" means a subsidiary loan made under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement for the carrying out of Part A, Part B or
Part C of the Project;



      (p)   "Category" means any of the Categories of items in the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (q)   "Won" means the currency of the Borrower.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts named the
"MOHSA Special Account" and the "NIH Special Account", respectively,
in Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the MOHSA Special
Account and the NIH Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 to this Agreement
respectively.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,



                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOHSA and NIH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and health practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including the
principal terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 9 of this
Agreement: (i) relend, through MOHSA, the proceeds of the Loan
allocated under Category (1) to NMC for the purpose of carrying out
Part A of the Project under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between MOHSA and NMC; (ii) relend the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Category (2) to NIH for the purpose of carrying
out Part B of the Project under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NIH; and (iii) relend, through
MOHSA, the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Category (3) to
Municipalities and Provinces for the purpose of carrying out Part C
of the Project under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into
between MOHSA and each Municipality or Province.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the



interests of the Borrower and the Bank to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower, through MOHSA, shall carry out
Part C of the Project in accordance with the procedures for
selection of PHs, and of equipment to be provided thereto, set forth
in Schedule 9 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. (a) For the purposes of overall coordination in
the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, until
the completion of the Project, the PIU, with structure, functions
and staff satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b)   For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project: (i) comply with
the criteria and procedures for selection of equipment set forth in
Schedule 8 to this Agreement; and (ii) maintain the Equipment
Selection Committee with such composition, functions and staff
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out the Action Program
with due diligence and efficiency and shall take all measures
necessary for the timely implementation thereof, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not introduce any substantial
amendments thereto, without the prior approval of the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower through MOHSA shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of MOHSA or other
agencies or departments of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan



                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Borrower, through MOHSA, has entered into the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i) of
this Agreement, with NMC for the carrying out of Part A of the
Project; and

      (b)   that the Borrower has entered into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement,
with NIH for the carrying out of Part B of the Project.

      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

       (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in
Section 5.01 (a), and (b) above have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower, through MOHSA, and NMC, and the Borrower
and NIH, respectively, and that each such Subsidiary Loan Agreement
is legally binding upon the Borrower through MOHSA and NMC and the
Borrower and NIH, respectively, in accordance with its terms, and is
in full force and effect.

      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MOF                       K23243



                   Kwachon, Korea

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                         /s/ Koo, Bohn Young
                         By
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                         By
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Equipment for             10,000,000      100% of foreign
      NMC under Part A                          expenditures,
      of the Project                            100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2)   Equipment for             10,000,000      100% of foreign
      NIH under Part B                          expenditures,
      of the Project                            100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory



                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3)  Equipment for PH’s      10,000,000         100% of foreign
     under Part C of                            expenditures,
     the Project                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

      TOTAL                   30,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:

      (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and

      (b)   in respect of expenditures on account of equipment for
a PH until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing for the financing
thereof has been entered into between the Borrower, through MOHSA,
and the concerned Municipality or Province and the Bank has received
a duly certified copy thereof together with a legal opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Bank stating that such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower,
through MOHSA, and such Municipality or Province, as the case may
be, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the respective
Municipality or Province in accordance with its terms, and is in
full force and effect.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to increase access to
available medical care services, to improve the quality of medical
care in public hospitals, to strengthen control over the safety of
drugs and quality of food and to address critical health sector
policy issues, in particular, sector financing and cost containment.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Strengthening of NMC



      The acquisition of equipment for NMC, in particular, equipment
to support/diagnostic services relating to diseases such as coronary
heart disease, cancer, stroke and chronic liver disease.

Part B:     Strengthening of NIH

      The acquisition of research and testing equipment for
monitoring the safety of drugs and food, for producing vaccines and
antigens and for monitoring communicable diseases.

Part C:     Strengthening of Selected PH’s

      The provision to such PH’s of biomedical equipment to upgrade
their diagnostic and treatment capabilities, especially for
noncommunicable diseases.

Part D:     Training and Action Program

      (a)   The provision of training to MOHSA, NMC and NIH staff.

      (b)   The carrying out of the Action Program by the Borrower
to address critical sector issues, inter alia, hospital efficiency,
diffusion of medical technology and fee schedules, supported by
relevant research studies, publications on health policy and
financing.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning February 1, 1998
      through   February 1, 2007           1,500,000

      And on August 1, 2007                1,500,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40



      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Republic of Korea
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      (a)  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (b) contracts
for proprietary items and for spare parts for existing equipment may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers thereof, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; provided that the
cost of such items or groups of items procured in accordance with
the methods set forth in (a) or (b) of this paragraph shall not
exceed a maximum aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000.

Part  D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

      (a)   With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (b)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

      (c)   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                       MOHSA Special Account

 1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:



      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the MOHSA Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the MOHSA Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the MOHSA Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
MOHSA Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the MOHSA Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the MOHSA Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                   for deposits into the MOHSA Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the MOHSA Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the MOHSA Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the MOHSA Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the MOHSA Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or



      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit into the MOHSA  Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the MOHSA Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the MOHSA Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the MOHSA Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the MOHSA Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the MOHSA Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 6

                        NIH Special Account

 1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (2)  set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the NIH Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the NIH Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the NIH Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the



Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
NIH Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the NIH Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the NIH Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                   for deposits into the NIH Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the NIH Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the NIH Special Account
                   for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the NIH Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the NIH Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the NIH Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the NIH Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)



deposit into the NIH Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the NIH Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the NIH Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the NIH Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 7

                 Procedures for Selection of PH’s

1.    Each Municipality and Province seeking financing of equipment
to be provided to a PH, shall submit an application therefor, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank to HMD
endorsed by the Office of Mayor or Governor, as the case may be.

2.    Upon approval by HMD of the application, the list of equipment
sought to be financed shall be submitted to the Equipment Selection
Committee for final approval.

3.    HMD shall select from PH’s nominated in accordance with (1)
above, the PH’s to receive budgetary allocations taking into account
the improvement in equitable access of the poor to health care such
a selection would create.

                           SCHEDULE 8

                    Criteria and Procedures for
         Selection of Equipment for Project Implementation

Criteria and Procedures for Selection of Equipment

1.    NMC, NIH and PH’s shall submit their equipment lists and
technical specifications for approval by the Equipment Selection
Committee.

2.    The Equipment Selection Committee shall select equipment in
accordance with the point system approved by the Bank which shall
take into account: (i) effectiveness of the equipment in achieving
modernization of the medical care system (including use of the
equipment which should be bio-medical; whether the equipment is
incremental or replacement equipment; whether the equipment is for
therapeutic or diagnostic purposes); (ii) regional distribution and
epidemiological need (including proportional availability of
equipment among the eight medical regions in accordance with
population ratios, and the epidemiological need and appropriateness
of proposed equipment); and (iii) efficiency in equipment
utilization (including PH’s capability to maintain equipment; PH’s
arrangements for training equipment users; and PH’s budgetary
provisions for recurrent operational costs).

3.    The Equipment Selection Committee shall prepare a procurement
list or supply such list to OSROK for procurement implementation.

                           SCHEDULE 9



        Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans

1.    Subsidiary Loans shall be denominated in Won.

2.    The amount of each Subsidiary Loan to be made to a Province or
Municipality for the financing of equipment under Part C of the
Project shall be determined on the basis of the maximum estimated
cost of the equipment to be acquired.

3.    The proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan shall be used only tofinance equipment which 
shall have been approved by the Equipment
Selection Committee.

4.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable to the
Borrower shall be the equivalent in Won of amounts of the Subsidiary
Loan withdrawn and outstanding, such equivalent to be expressed at
the exchange rates prevailing at the time of withdrawal.

5.    The term of each Subsidiary Loan shall be for a period of 15
years with a grace period of 5 years.

6.    The interest rate applicable to each Subsidiary Loan shall be
equal to the interest rate calculated in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement together with an
additional 0.05% (one-twentieth of one percent) per annum.

7.    NMC, NIH and each Municipality and Province respectively shall
pay a commitment charge per annum on the principal amount of its
Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the same rate as
applicable to the Loan in accordance with Section 2.04 of this
Agreement.

8.    An additional fee of 0.05% shall be payable in respect of any
overdue amount of principal or interest under the Subsidiary Loan.

9.    Any of NMC, NIH, a Municipality or Province wishing to
exercise a right of prepayment may only do so after application for,
and receipt of, the Borrower’s written consent, the prepayment
premium applicable to the Loan shall apply in respect of an amount
of a Subsidiary Loan prepaid.