World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3524 LT

                       (Rehabilitation Loan)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated October 23, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3524 LT

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 23, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF
LITHUANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated Septem-
ber 28, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve economic stabilization
and systemic reforms in the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called
the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;

      (B)   the Borrower has contracted from the Swedish Agency for
International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS) a grant (the
BITS Grant) in an amount equivalent to $250,000 to assist in
financing part of activities to support the implementation of the
Loan and the Program on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the BITS Agreement); and

      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
      to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "eligible bank" means any Lithuanian commercial bank
that (i) is licensed to handle foreign exchange transactions, (ii)
has identified a qualified official to be directly responsible for
transactions related to the Loan, and (iii) has furnished to the
Bank details of a satisfactory training program for its staff who
are involved in international transactions;

      (b)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement;

      (c)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986); and

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued



by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates



            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain an
adequately staffed project implementation unit (PIU) within the
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance to advise on and oversee procurement
and disbursement actions under the Loan. To this end, the Borrower
shall (i) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the operation of the PIU,
and (ii) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with the
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and

            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information



                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such expen-
                   ditures;

            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

            (iii)  enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal con-
                   trols involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Sermuksniy 6
            2696 Vilnius
            Lithuania

                                           Telex:

                                             261252 FIMA SU



     For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA

                         By /s/ Stasys Lozoraitis
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds in
accordance with the allocation of the Loan to the following
Categories:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated
                                           (Expressed in
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)

(1) Pre-identified            45,000,000
    imports

(2) Other imports             15,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                60,000,000
                              ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no



withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods under Category (1) unless the
goods are included in a list of eligible imports as agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (b)   expenditures for goods under Category (2) unless the
Borrower has submitted to the Bank evidence that the expenditures
were through eligible banks and that no one enterprise has received
in the aggregate more that $500,000 from the proceeds of the Loan;

      (c)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

 Group             Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                  not containing tobacco substi-
                                  tutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and associated mate-
                                  rials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                  stones, worked or unworked

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                  thereof, fuel elements (cart-
                                  ridges), nonirradiated for nucle-
                                  ar reactors

   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or plati-
                                  num group metals (except watches
                                  and watch cases) and goldsmiths’
                                  or silversmiths’ wares (including
                                  set gems)

   971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold
                                  ores and concentrates)

      (d)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (e)   payments made for expenditures in respect of goods
imported prior to the date of this Agreement;

      (f)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;

      (g)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (h)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and

      (i)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $15,000,000 in respect of Category (1) above for petroleum
products.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 may be permitted
by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such



terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

March 1, 1997                              1,395,000
September 1, 1997                          1,445,000
March 1, 1998                              1,500,000
September 1, 1998                          1,560,000
March 1, 1999                              1,615,000
September 1, 1999                          1,680,000
March 1, 2000                              1,740,000
September 1, 2000                          1,810,000
March 1, 2001                              1,875,000
September 1, 2001                          1,950,000
March 1, 2002                              2,020,000
September 1, 2002                          2,100,000
March 1, 2003                              2,180,000
September 1, 2003                          2,260,000
March 1, 2004                              2,350,000
September 1, 2004                          2,435,000
March 1, 2005                              2,530,000
September 1, 2005                          2,625,000
March 1, 2006                              2,725,000
September 1, 2006                          2,830,000
March 1, 2007                              2,935,000
September 1, 2007                          3,050,000
March 1, 2008                              3,165,000
September 1, 2008                          3,285,000
March 1, 2009                              3,410,000
September 1, 2009                          3,530,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                   0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity



More than fifteen years before                   1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Subject to prior review in accordance with paragraph 1.10 of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), contracts for
the procurement of goods under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
or other methods of procurement, acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I, II and III of the Guidelines, subject to the following
modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international circula-
                   tion; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                   quired."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

      (d)   The provisions of paragraph 1.5 of the Guidelines shall
not apply as to the Loan for goods and services provided by
nationals of, or produced in or supplied from, republics of the
former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods under Category (2) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement:

      (a)   estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $300,000
shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
eligible countries, except that direct contracting procedures
acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and

      (b)   estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded



commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

4.    With respect to each contract which is not awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) hereof, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of any Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this
paragraph shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence
required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                             SCHEDULE 4

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the



respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.