World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3455 PH

               (Third Municipal Development Project)

                              between

                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 15, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3455 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Central Project Office" means the Central Project
Office within the Department of Public Works and Highways of the
Borrower established and operating under Presidential Decree No.
1914 dated March 29, 1984;

      (b)   "DOF" means the Department of Finance of the Borrower;

      (c)   "DPWH" means the Department of Public Works and Highways
of the Borrower;

      (d)   "DILG" means the Department of the Interior and Local
Government of the Borrower;

      (e)   "LGA" means the Local Government Academy established in
1987 under Executive Order No. 262 of the Borrower;

      (f)   "Local Government Unit" or "LGU" means a municipality or
a city to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan;

      (g)   "Local Loans Account" means the account established
under Section 1.2 of Resolution No. 01-92-MDF of the Borrower
entitled "Providing General Policies for the Lending and Program
Support Operations of the MDF" by the MDF Policy Governing Board
dated February 5, 1992;

      (h)   "Municipal Development Fund" or "MDF" means the
Municipal Development Fund established and operating under
Presidential Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984 to provide
financial assistance to municipalities and cities for development
projects;

      (i)   "Program Support Account" means the account established
under Section 1.3 of Resolution No. 01-92-MDF of the Borrower
entitled "Providing General Policies for the Lending and Program
Support Operations of the MDF" by the MDF Policy Governing Board
dated February 5, 1992;

      (j)   "Project Steering Committee" means the Project Steering
Committee, established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1914
dated March 29, 1984, and comprising representatives of various
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for or involved
in the Project;

      (k)   "SPMS" means the Special Projects Management Service
within DOF’s Bureau of Local Government Finance established under
Executive Order No. 127, S. 1987;

      (l)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower through DOF from the
Municipal Development Fund to a Local Government Unit for the local
component of a Sub-project (as defined in paragraph (n) of this
Section);

      (m)   "Sub-loan Agreement" means an agreement for a Sub-loan



to be entered into between the Borrower, through DOF, and a Local
Government Unit;

      (n)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project with
a component to be carried out by the Borrower (referred to as the
national component), and a component to be carried out by a Local
Government Unit utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan (referred to as
the local component); and

      (o)   "Sub-project Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, through DPWH, and a Local Government Unit
for the carrying out of a Sub-project, or a component thereof.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty eight million dollars ($68,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined



                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out and cause Local
Government Units to carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be
maintained records and accounts in respect of the Project and Sub-
projects adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower and Local Government Units
responsible for carrying out the Project or a Sub-project or any
part thereof.



      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have and cause, through each Sub-project
                   Agreement respectively the Local Government
                   Units to have, the records and accounts referred
                   to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, a consolidated report of
                   such audit by its auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audits thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain and cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain and cause to be retained, until at least
                   one year after the Bank has received the audit
                   report for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   consolidated report of such audits contains a
                   separate opinion by its auditors as to whether
                   the statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:



      For the Borrower:

            Secretary of Finance
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Philippines

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   SECFIN                    27550 CBP PH
                   Manila                    40268 CB CONF

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                               /s/ F. Ebdalin
                         By
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                               /s/ G. Kaji
                         By
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans for             27,500,000        70% of amounts
    Sub-projects under                          disbursed under
    Part A.2 of the                             the Municipal
    Project                                     Development Fund



(2) Civil works under          9,500,000        60%
    Part A.1 of the
    Project

(3) Goods and services         7,500,000        100% of amounts
    under Part B of the                         disbursed by DOF
    Project

(4) Maintenance programs       2,500,000        100% of amounts
    under Part C of the                         disbursed by DPWH
    Project

(5) Consultants’               5,500,000        100%
    services

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Training under             2,000,000        100%
    Part D of
    the Project

(7) Unallocated               13,500,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                68,000,000
                              ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   paragraph 1, Categories (1) and (2) above for a Sub-
project under a Sub-project Agreement unless the Sub-project has
been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   paragraph 1, Categories (1) and (2) above, until the
Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Local Loans Account and the Program Support Account are in
existence.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
expanding and upgrading the infrastructure, services and facilities
of its cities and municipalities by: (a) strengthening the
Borrower’s institutional framework for assisting local governments;
(b) strengthening the local governments’ investment planning,
financing and implementation capacity; (c) strengthening the local
governments’ maintenance capacity; and (d) improving local fiscal
performance.

      The project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Sub-projects

1.    National Component

      (a)   Infrastructure: Construction and/or rehabilitation of
basic infrastructure and facilities including shore protection,
flood control measures, primary drainage systems, and primary roads
and bridges.



      (b)   Consultancies: For Sub-project preparation, evaluation
and monitoring.

2.    Local Components

      (a)   Infrastructure: Construction and/or rehabilitation of
basic infrastructure including secondary and tertiary drainage
systems, sanitary landfills, municipal water systems, local roads,
traffic management measures, and municipal piers/wharves.

      (b)   Facilities: Construction and/or rehabilitation of basic
facilities including public markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals,
motorpools, health centers and school buildings.

      (c)   Equipment: Provision of maintenance equipment, solid
waste collection and disposal equipment, and computers.

      (d)   Consultancies: Provision of consultants’ services for
detailed engineering and construction supervision.
Part B:     Real Property Tax Administration

      (a)   The carrying out of a program to improve real property
tax management by, inter alia, the preparation of tax maps,
assessments and surveys for improvement in land use identified by
such surveys, updating tax records, improving tax collection and tax
management, and computerization of real property information
together with the provision of manpower, training, supplies and
equipment therefor.

      (b)   The hiring of consultants for the purposes of
implementation of the program referred to in paragraph (a) above.

Part C:     Maintenance Program

      Provision of assistance in the form of grants to cities and
municipalities to improve maintenance planning and implementation in
selected pilot cities and municipalities.

Part D:     Municipal Training Program

      (a)   Establishment and carrying out of a municipal training
program to train local officials in, inter alia, municipal planning,
fiscal management, and contract management.

      (b)   The hiring of consultants for the implementation of the
program referred to in paragraph (a) above.

Part E:     Studies

      The carrying out of studies on: (i) municipal lending covering
institutional options for further lending to local governments; and
(ii) urban environment and solid waste management covering
environmental sanitation and solid waste disposal strategies.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

December 15, 1997                         1,240,000
June 15, 1998                             1,290,000
December 15, 1998                         1,340,000
June 15, 1999                             1,390,000
December 15, 1999                         1,445,000



June 15, 2000                             1,500,000
December 15, 2000                         1,555,000
June 15, 2001                             1,615,000
December 15, 2001                         1,680,000
June 15, 2002                             1,745,000
December 15, 2002                         1,810,000
June 15, 2003                             1,880,000
December 15, 2003                         1,955,000
June 15, 2004                             2,030,000
December 15, 2004                         2,110,000
June 15, 2005                             2,190,000
December 15, 2005                         2,275,000
June 15, 2006                             2,365,000
December 15, 2006                         2,455,000
June 15, 2007                             2,550,000
December 15, 2007                         2,645,000
June 15, 2008                             2,750,000
December 15, 2008                         2,855,000
June 15, 2009                             2,965,000
December 15, 2009                         3,080,000
June 15, 2010                             3,200,000
December 15, 2010                         3,325,000
June 15, 2011                             3,450,000
December 15, 2011                         3,585,000
June 15, 2012                             3,725,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services



Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     Procurement Procedures

1.    Except as provided in paragraph 3 (a) hereof, items or groups
of items for goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Except as provided for in paragraph 3 (b) hereof civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    (a)   Materials for maintenance, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (b)   Contracts for maintenance, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,000,000, may be carried out by force account.

Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the first of each contract for goods and
civil works respectively the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

              Implementation Program Implementation;
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

A.    Implementation

1.    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Steering Committee and
cause it to provide overall policy guidance and coordination among
the various agencies responsible for or involved in the Project.

2.    (a)   The Borrower shall maintain the Central Project Office
with powers, functions, resources and staffing satisfactory to the
Bank.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, through the Central Project Office,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a consolidated project imple-
mentation progress report every quarter commencing December 31,



1992.

3.    The Borrower shall maintain the Municipal Development Fund
within the DOF with powers and functions satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1, B, D and E of the
Project through DPWH, DOF and LGA and shall cause, through each Sub-
project Agreement respectively, Part A.2 and Part C of the Project
to be carried out by the Local Government Units selected by the
Borrower in consultation with the Bank.

5.    Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower
through DOF through certain cities and municipalities selected by
the Borrower in consultation with the Bank. The Borrower, through
DOF, shall provide grants for such purpose not exceeding in any
particular case eighty percent (80%) of the amount expended by the
selected cities and municipalities, which shall provide at least in
any particular case twenty percent (20%) of such amount from each
such city or municipality’s own funds, on procurement of goods and
services under Part B of the Project.

6.    Part C of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower
through DPWH through certain cities and municipalities selected by
the Borrower in consultation with the Bank. The Borrower, through
DPWH, shall provide grants in respect of each annual maintenance
program agreed between DPWH and each respective city or municipality
selected by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank for main-
tenance of infrastructure utilities and public facilities in amounts
equal to in the first year seventy percent (70%), in the second year
fifty percent (50%) and in the third year thirty percent (30%)
respectively, and in each such year the selected cities and
municipalities shall provide in each case the appropriate additional
amount necessary to carry out such annual maintenance program. In
the fourth year the full amount of carrying out its annual
maintenance program shall be borne by the selected city or
municipality, as the case may be.

7.    The Borrower shall, at all times: (a) maintain the Local Loans
Account and the Program Support Account within the Municipal
Development Fund, and (b) shall not, unless otherwise agreed with
the Bank, amend, abrogate, or fail to enforce the MDF Policy
Governing Board Resolution No. 01-92-MDF, or any provision thereof.

8.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992, reorganize the SPMS
and provide adequate staffing thereto satisfactory to the Bank.

9.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1992, prepare an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out the computerization
of real property information under Part B of the Project including
an assessment of the established microcomputer-based systems and
shall thereafter implement such action plan.

10.   The Borrower shall maintain the LGA with resources and
staffing satisfactory to the Bank.

B.    Sub-projects and Sub-loans

1.    The Borrower shall cause the Central Project Office to select
Sub-projects on the basis of the socio-economic merits and financial
and technical viability of each Sub-project, and shall cause the
Central Project Office to appraise each Sub-project so selected in
accordance with appraisal criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall, prior to the award of a Sub-loan for a
Sub-project, submit or cause the Central Project Office to submit to
the Bank for review and acceptance, an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with the following: (i) an
appraisal of the Sub-project including an implementation plan and a
description of the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, a review of potential environmental risks of the Sub-
project satisfactory to the Bank, analysis of the measures
incorporated into its location, design, construction and operation



to avoid or mitigate such risks, and also a resettlement and
compensation plan and program in cases (if any) where a population
will, or may, be dislocated from a Sub-project site; (ii) copies of
the Sub-project Agreement and Sub-loan Agreement; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank may reasonably request.

3.    The Borrower shall, to enable the Local Government Units to
carry out the Sub-projects, enter into Sub-project Agreements in
relation thereto, and on-lend the proceeds of the Loan allocated in
Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement through Sub-loans to
Local Government Units under Sub-loan Agreements on the terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank including the main terms and
conditions set out herein. The Sub-loans shall be on-lent to the
Local Government Units by DOF through the Municipal Development
Fund.

4.    The Borrower shall not, without the concurrence of the Bank,
make any amendment to any Sub-project Agreement or Sub-loan
Agreement relating to, in the case of Sub-loans, any of the terms
and conditions of Sub-loans outlined hereinbelow or, in the case of
Sub-projects, any terms and conditions that might materially affect
the Sub-project.

C.    Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loan Agreements

      The following are the principal terms and conditions of Sub-
loans:

1.    (a) Maximum Sub-loan amount    :    90% of local component
                                          of the Sub-project
                                          (under Part A.2 of the
                                          Project)

      (b) Repayment period           :    up to 15 years including
                                          up to 3 years of grace
                                          with equal payments of
                                          interest and principal

      (c) Interest rate              :    fixed rate, to be fixed
                                          in the case of each Sub-
                                          loan at the date of
                                          entering into the Sub-
                                          loan Agreement
2.    Procurement: Procurement of goods, services and civil works
for the Sub-projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loans shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.