World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3500 PAK

          (Domestic Energy Resources Development Project)

                              between

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated October 1, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3500 PAK

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 1992, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower, through its Directorate General for
Petroleum Concession (DGPC) has entered into a joint venture
agreement with private partners for petroleum exploration, develop-
ment and production in the Badin Block area, located in the lower
Indus region;

      (C)   the Oil and Gas Development Corporation of the Borrower
has entered into joint venture agreements for petroleum exploration,
development and production in the Jacobabad and Khairpur District in
the Sindh Province, which resulted in the discovery of the Qadirpur

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



and the Kadanwari Gas Fields;

      (D)   the Project will be carried out in part by the Borrower
and in part, with the Borrower’s assistance, by the Borrower’s Oil
and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) and Sui Northern Gas Pipeline
Company Limited (SNGPL) and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to OGDC and SNGPL a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and OGDC and the Project
Agreement between the Bank and SNGPL;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "OGDC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and OGDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the OGDC Project Agreement;

      (b)   "SNGPL Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and SNGPL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such terms includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the SNGPL Project Agreement;

      (c)   "OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and OGDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the OGDC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

      (d)   "SNGPL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SNGPL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the SNGPL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

      (e)   "Subsidiary Loan" means either of the loans provided
under the OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the SNGPL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

      (f)   "MPNR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resources;

      (g)   "LPG" means liquified petroleum gas;



      (h)   "MPNR Special Account" means the account to be opened in
the name of MPNR pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (i)   "OGDC Special Account" means the account to be opened in
the name of OGDC pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (j)   "SNGPL Special Account" means the account to be opened
in the name of SNGPL pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (k)   "Special Accounts" means the MPNR, OGDC and SNGPL
Special Accounts;

      (l)   "Qadirpur Joint Venture Agreement" means (i) the
Petroleum Concession Agreement for the area encompassing the
Qadirpur Gas Field referred to in Part A (1) of the Project between
the Borrower and the concessionaries, namely, OGDC, Burma Oil, B.V.,
Premier Oil Company and Pakistan Petroleum Limited, and (ii) the
Joint Operating Agreement defining the respective obligations of the
Borrower and the concessionaires in connection with the exploration
and development of oil and gas discoveries in such area;

      (m)   "Kadanwari Joint Venture Agreement" means (i) the
Petroleum Concession Agreement for the Tajjal area, encompassing the
Kadanwari Gas Field referred to in Part A (2) of the Project between
the Borrower and the concessionaires, namely, OGDC, LASMO Oil,
Idemitsu and Kuwaiti Foreign Petroleum Company, and (ii) the Joint
Operating Agreement defining the respective obligations of the
Borrower and the concessionaires in connection with the exploration
and development of oil and gas discoveries in such area;

      (n)   "Badin Joint Venture Agreement" means (i) the Petroleum
Concession Agreement for the area encompassing the Badin Gas Field
referred to in Part A (3) of the Project between the Borrower and
the concessionaires, namely, the Directorate General for Petroleum
Concessions of MPNR, Union Texas (Pakistan) and Occidental Petroleum
Company, and (ii) the Joint Operating Agreement defining the
respective obligations of the Borrower and the concessionaries in
connection with the exploration and development of oil and gas
discoveries in such area;

      (o)   "Joint Venture Agreements" means the agreements referred
to in the preceding paragraphs (l), (m) and (n) of this Section;

      (p)   "Operator" means the Operator specified under any Joint
Operating Agreement, namely: (i) in respect of Qadirpur Joint
Venture, OGDC; (ii) in respect of Kadanwari Joint Venture, Lasmo
Oil; and (iii) in respect of Badin Joint Venture, Union Texas
(Pakistan);

      (q)   "Operating Payment" means the demand made by the
Operator on the Borrower or OGDC, as the case may be, for payment of
their respective share of expenses in accordance with the provision
of the relevant Joint Operating Agreement; and

      (r)   "Ordinance" means the Oil and Gas Development Corpora-
tion Ordinance of the Borrower, dated September 20, 1961, as amended
from time to time;

      (s)   "Rupees" means the currency of the Borrower;

      (t)   "EAR" means the Environmental Assessment Report prepared
in respect of the Project, dated August 17, 1991;

      (u)   "MMCFD" means million cubic feet per day;

      (v)   "HDIP" means the Hydrocarbon Development Institute of
Pakistan; and

      (w)   "Petroleum Policy" means the statement of the Borrower’s
Petroleum Policy, published by MPNR in November 1991.

                            ARTICLE II



                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred eighty million dollars ($180,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars three special deposit accounts (the
MPNR Special Account, the OGDC Special Account and the SNGPL Special
Account) in the National Bank of Pakistan or in any other commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.



      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Quali-
      fied Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i) carry out Parts A (3) and B (3) of the Project through MPNR with
due obligation and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering and financial practices and shall
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Parts A (3) and B (3) of the Project;
and (ii) cause OGDC and SNGPL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the OGDC Project Agreement and the SNGPL Project
Agreement all their obligations therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable OGDC and SNGPL to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend to: (i) OGDC under the OGDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the amount of the Loan allocated from
time to time under Categories (1) (a) and (3) (a) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) SNGPL under the
SNGPL Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the amount of the Loan allocated
from time to time under Categories (2) and (3) (b) of said table.
The OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SNGPL Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be concluded under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank, which shall include the following
terms and conditions:

            (A)   the proceeds of each Subsidiary Loan shall be
                  denominated in the same currency or currencies in
                  which withdrawal of the corresponding amounts of
                  the Loan shall be made from the Loan Account and
                  shall be repaid in the same currency or curren-
                  cies in which such corresponding amount shall be
                  repayable to the Bank or in the Rupee equivalent
                  of such corresponding amounts determined as of
                  the respective date of repayment.



            (B)   each Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over the
                  same maturity period specified for the amortiza-
                  tion of the Loan in accordance with Schedule 3 to
                  this Agreement; and

            (C)   OGDC and SNGPL shall pay to the Borrower, in
                  respect of the withdrawn and outstanding amount
                  of their respective Subsidiary Loans, interest at
                  an annual rate which shall at least be equal to
                  the interest rate applicable to the Loan from
                  time to time pursuant to Section 2.05 of this
                  Agreement plus one-tenth of such rate.

      (c)   Without limitation to the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower specifically
undertakes: (i) to assist in the carrying out of the study referred
to in Section 3.05 of the OGDC Project Agreement and in the review
and implementation of measures recommended thereunder; (ii) to
assist OGDC to recruit the staff referred to in Section 3.06 of the
OGDC Project Agreement; and (iii) to take promptly all actions
required on its part to enable OGDC to comply with its obligations
under Sections 3.06, 4.02 and 4.03 of such Agreement.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) cause MPNR, by June 30,
1992, to review with the Bank the report containing the findings and
recommendations of the study which is being currently undertaken of
the capacity and organization of MPNR’s secretariat and technical
directorates and of HDIP, and to prepare, on the basis of such
review, an action plan satisfactory to the Bank for the implementa-
tion of such recommendation; and (b) thereafter carry out such
action plan in accordance with the time schedule stated therein.

      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) procurement of the goods, works and services required under
Parts A (3) and B (3) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement; and (ii) procurement of the goods, works and
services required under the Project (other than the Parts A (3) and
B (3) thereof) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to each of the
OGDC Project Agreement and the SNGPL Project Agreement.

      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A (except
Part A (3)) and Parts B (1) and (2) of the Project shall be carried
out by  OGDC and SNGPL pursuant to Section 2.03 of each of the OGDC
Project Agreement and the SNGPL Project Agreement.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause MPNR: (a) to furnish to
the Bank for its review and verification, as soon as available, each
monthly statement of actual expenses incurred under the Joint
Operating Agreement related to the Badin Joint Venture, prepared by
the Operator in support of Operating Payments for the immediately
preceding month; (b) to furnish to the Bank the annual report of
expenditures billed by the Operators to the other partners under
said Joint Operating Agreement promptly upon their preparation, but
in any event not later than six months after the end of the
Operator’s fiscal year; such reports having been prepared or
certified by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (c) to
ensure that representatives of the Bank shall have access to all
technical reports, data, records and facilities of the Badin Joint
Venture related to the implementation of Part A (3) of the Project,
the verification of Operating Payments or the assessment of the
financial position of the Badin Joint Venture.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MPNR to prepare, in
accordance with a format satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish to
the Bank quarterly reports on progress in the carrying out of Parts
A (3) and B (3) of the Project.



                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MPNR:

            (i)   to maintain records and accounts adequate to
                  reflect in accordance with sound accounting
                  practices its resources and expenditures in
                  respect of Parts A (3) and B (3) of the Project;

           (ii)   to have such records and accounts for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

          (iii)   to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iv)   to furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audit-
                  ed, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure submit-
                  ted during such fiscal year, together with the
                  procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.



      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) take, by December 31,
1992, the measures necessary to enable implementation of the
Petroleum Policy; and (b) review with the Bank, by June 30 in each
year, the progress achieved in such implementation.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause MPNR to formulate, by
December 31, 1992, with the assistance of appropriately qualified
consultants, guidelines for environmental assessment and safety with
respect to petroleum exploration and development activities.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   OGDC or SNGPL shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the OGDC Project Agreement or the SNGPL Project
Agreement, respectively.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that OGDC or SNGPL will be able to
perform its obligations under the OGDC Project Agreement or the
SNGPL Project Agreement, respectively.

      (c)   The Ordinance shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of OGDC to perform any of its obligations
under the OGDC Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of OGDC or SNGPL or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   Any of the Joint Venture Agreements shall have been
amended, assigned, abrogated or waived in such a manner as, in the
opinion of the Bank, would materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project or the ability of OGDC to perform its
obligations under the OGDC Project Agreement.

      (f)   Any of the Operators shall have been changed without the
Bank’s concurrence.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e)
or (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SNGPL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and OGDC and on behalf of the Borrower and SNGPL, respec-
tively;

      (b)   the PC-1 document for the spur pipeline referred to in
Parts A (6) of the Project has been approved by the Borrower;



      (c)   OGDC has selected the consultants required to assist it
in the design of the accounting system, referred to in Section 4.03
(a) of the OGDC Project Agreement and the establishment of the
management information system referred to in Part B (1) (i) of the
Project;

      (d)   OGDC has furnished to the Bank a report prepared, in
accordance with technical standards satisfactory to the Bank, by an
international reservoir engineering firm as to the estimate of the
recoverable reserves at the Qadirpur Gas Field referred to in Part
A (1) of the Project;

      (e)   OGDC and SNGPL has entered into: (i) a contract
regarding the arrangements and prices for the guaranteed purchase by
SNGPL (on a take or pay basis) from the Dhodak Gas Field of about 45
MMCFD of gas for a period of 15 years, commencing in 1993; and (ii)
a contract regarding the arrangements and prices for the guaranteed
purchase by SNGPL (on a take or pay basis) for a period of 20 years
from the Qadirpur Gas Field of 100 MMCFD in the year 1993, to be
increased in the year 1994 to 200 MMCFD;

      (f)   OGDC has appointed a director for its technical services
with suitable qualifications and experience; and

      (g)   the Borrower has offered its existing equity shares in
SNGPL for sale to the general public so as to reduce the Borrower’s
direct and indirect shareholding in SNGPL to forty percent (40%).

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)  that the OGDC Project Agreement and the SNGPL Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by OGDC and SNGPL,
and are legally binding upon OGDC and SNGPL, respectively, in
accordance with their terms; and

      (b)   that the OGDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SNGPL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and OGDC and by the Borrower and SNGPL, respectively,
and are legally binding upon the same in accordance with their
terms.

      Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad, Pakistan

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  ECONOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634
                  Pakistan

      For the Bank:



            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Operating Payments:                         (a) 100% of
                                                foreign expen-
    (a)  OGDC’s shares                          ditures with
                                                respect to con-
         (i)  under           55,000,000        tracts for the
              Part A (1)                        supply of goods
              of the                            only, and (b)
              Project                           85% with respect
                                                to turn-key con-
        (ii)  under           24,000,000        tracts providing
              Part A (2)                        for the supply
              of the                            of goods in addi-
              Project                           tion to associated
                                                works and services
    (b)  Borrower’s           36,000,000
         share under
         Part A (3) of
         the Project



(2) Installation of           56,000,000        100% of foreign
    and equipment                               expenditures and
    for pipelines                               100% of local
    under Part A (5),                           expenditures (ex-
    (6) and (7) of                              factory cost)
    the Project

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’                                100%
    services:

    (a)  for Part B (1)        2,000,000
         of the Project

    (b)  for Part B (2)          500,000
         of the Project

    (c)  for Part B (3)        2,500,000
         of the Project

(4) Unallocated                4,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               180,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

       (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $18,000,000 may be made on account of
payments for expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) in the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule before that date but after
February 1, 1991;

      (b)   expenditures under Category (1) (a) (ii) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bank has been furnished with:
(i) plans satisfactory to the Bank for the utilization of gas
expected to be produced from the Kadanwari Gas Field referred to in
Part A (2) of the Project; and (ii) a confirmation of reserves at
said Kadanwari Gas Field, prepared by an international reservoir
engineering firm; and

      (c)   expenditures under Category (1) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule if supporting documentation to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement and
Section 2.08 (a) of the OGDC Project Agreement, for earlier
withdrawals in respect of Operating Payments was not furnished or
was insufficient or unsatisfactory in the opinion of the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s



strategy for the development of its hydrocarbon resources through
assisting in: (a) the efficient development of such resources with
the maximum participation of the private sector; (b) enhancing the
commercial orientation and autonomy of the public sector entities
operating in the subsector of oil and natural gas; and (c) strength-
ening the regulatory and policy making role of the Borrower’s
agencies responsible for the subsector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Development of Gas and Oil Fields and Related Facilities

(1)   Development of the Qadirpur Gas Field in accordance with the
      plan agreed under the Qadirpur Joint Venture Agreement,
      including drilling of about nine additional wells and instal-
      lation of production facilities.

(2)   Development of the Kadanwari Gas Field in accordance with the
      plan agreed under the Kadanwari Joint Venture Agreement,
      including drilling of about seven development wells and
      installation of production facilities.

(3)   Development of the area covered under the Badin Joint Venture
      Agreement, including the drilling of about eleven wells and
      implementation of a program to maintain the level of oil
      production and to increase gas production.

(4)   Installation of a condensate plant at Dhodak, comprising a gas
      dehydration unit, LPG recovery unit, condensate stabilization
      unit, surface gathering facilities and a topping plant with
      associated facilities.

(5)   Construction of a 84 km gas pipeline between Dhodak and Kot
      Addu.

(6)   (a)   Construction of (i) about 60 km spur pipeline for the
            transmission of gas from Qadirpur Gas Field to the main
            Sui-Multan Gas Trunkline; and (ii) about 50 km of
            pipeline for the transmission of gas between Rahimyar
            Khan and Uch.

      (b)   Installation of 9 compressor units (6 new and 3 in
            stock), together with required discharge gas cooling
            equipment.

(7)   Installation of telemetry and telecontrol equipment.

Part B:     Institutional Development

(1)   Assistance to OGDC in: (i) establishment of a modern accrual-
      based accounting system and a comprehensive management
      information system; (ii) establishment and operation of an
      environmental management unit; and (iii) assessment of the
      feasibility of privatizing its technical services.

(2)   Assistance to SNGPL in upgrading the technical supervisory
      control and data acquisition facilities.

(3)   Assistance for MPNR in the carrying out of the Petroleum
      Policy and for upgrading the capacity of its secretariat and
      technical directorates and of HDIP.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule



                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*

February 1, 1998                                      3,280,000
August 1, 1998                                        3,410,000
February 1, 1999                                      3,540,000
August 1, 1999                                        3,680,000
February 1, 2000                                      3,820,000
August 1, 2000                                        3,970,000
February 1, 2001                                      4,120,000
August 1, 2001                                        4,280,000
February 1, 2002                                      4,445,000
August 1, 2002                                        4,620,000
February 1, 2003                                      4,795,000
August 1, 2003                                        4,980,000
Feburary 1, 2004                                      5,175,000
August 1, 2004                                        5,375,000
February 1, 2005                                      5,580,000
August 1, 2005                                        5,795,000
February 1, 2006                                      6,020,000
August 1, 2006                                        6,255,000
Feburary 1, 2007                                      6,495,000
August 1, 2007                                        6,745,000
February 1, 2008                                      7,010,000
August 1, 2008                                        7,280,000
February 1, 2009                                      7,560,000
August 1, 2009                                        7,850,000
February 1, 2010                                      8,155,000
August 1, 2010                                        8,470,000
February 1, 2011                                      8,800,000
August 1, 2011                                        9,140,000
February 1, 2012                                      9,490,000
August 1, 2012                                        9,865,000

_________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not                   0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity



More than sixteen years but not                  0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity

More than eighteen years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

            Procurement and Consultants’ Services under
               Parts A (3) and B (3) of the Project

Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts, estimated each to cost the equivalent of not more
than $500,000, for (a) the supply of specialized field services such
as well logging, testing and stimulation and of specialized
equipment, materials and spare parts, may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Items, or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions:

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not subject to theprocurement arrangements 
referred to in paragraph 1 above and not
governed by the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special



Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II:  Employment of Consultants under Part B (3) of the
             Project

      In order to assist MPNR in the carrying out of Part B (3) of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause MPNR to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                         Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect
of the OGDC Special Account an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the OGDC Special
Account; (ii) in respect of the SNGPL Special Account, an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the SNGPL Special Account; and (iii) in respect of
the MPNR Special Account, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the MPNR Special
Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
any Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
relevant Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the relevant Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Accounts at such inter-



                  vals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                  the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                  the relevant Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence
                  to have been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocations.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the



Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.