World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3479 IRN

                     (Tehran Drainage Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                      MUNICIPALITY OF TEHRAN

                       Dated  June 5, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3479 IRN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1992 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF TEHRAN
(the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Islamic Republic of Iran (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement. The General Conditions shall apply
to this Agreement to the extent that the provisions thereof are
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "TDE" means the Technical and Development Executive, a
branch of the Borrower responsible, inter alia, for coordination of
planning and budgeting and for engineering and development; and

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy-seven million dollars ($77,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay a commission on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Commission Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding



Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay the commission accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Commission Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Commission Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Commission Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Commission Period in which
                  this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay a commission on the
      principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
      time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay the commission accrued on the principal
      amount outstanding during the preceding Commission Period,
      calculated at the rates applicable during such Commission
      Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Commissions and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall



provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall (i) assign to TDE the general
responsibility for Project implementation, including (A) the
preparation of work plans under the Project and coordination of the
implementation thereof, (B) the procurement of works, goods and
services under the Project, (C) the supervision of the work of the
experts referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, (D) the
preparation of documents required for withdrawal of the proceeds of
the Loan, (E) the drafting of the reports referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement; and (F) the monitoring and evaluation of
progress in achieving the physical and financial targets set forth
in the work plans referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph; and (ii) ensure by August 31, 1992, the staffing of the
Project Implementation Unit of TDE in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower shall employ and retain, throughout the
period of Project implementation, experts whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, to be
responsible, under the general supervision of TDE, for the manage-
ment of all technical aspects of construction works under Part A of
the Project.

      (d)   The Borrower shall ensure the allocation of resources to
be contributed towards the carrying out of the Project from the
Borrower’s own resources in the relevant annual budgets of the
Borrower.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower, acting through TDE, shall: (a)
ensure the acquisition, by December 31, 1993, of all non-
governmental land required for the carrying out of construction
works under Part A of the Project, currently estimated at 12
hectares; and (b) furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1992,
information concerning the methods to be followed for acquisition of
such land, the basis for determining the compensation due to the
owners thereof, if such land shall be acquired compulsorily, and the
arrangements, if any, for relocations of such owners.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower, acting through TDE, shall: (a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on progress in the
carrying out of the Project; each such report to be furnished to the
Bank within 30 days from the end of the quarter covered by it; and
(b) conduct jointly with the Bank, in March 1995, a mid-term review
of the Project, on the basis of a detailed progress report to be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank not later than January 15,
1995.

      Section 3.04. For purposes of Part B (2) of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) carry out, with the assistance of experts and
under terms of reference agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Bank, a study of measures to improve the financial management of the
Borrower and a study of measures to expand the revenue base of the
Borrower, and ensure the completion of said studies, by September
30, 1993 and December 31, 1993, respectively; and (b) exchange views
with the Bank on the recommendations of such studies with a view to
agreeing on an action plan, consistent with applicable legislation,
for the implementation thereof.

      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of



qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial resources with respect to the
Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   beginning with its fiscal year ending in March
                  20, 1992, have its records, accounts (including
                  the separate Project records and accounts
                  referred to in paragraph (a) above) and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for the Special Account for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested, including
                  the opinion of said auditors as to the adequacy
                  and accuracy of the Project accounts to be
                  maintained pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
                  Section; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of



                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on March 20, 1993, total revenues sufficient at
least to cover the sum of its recurrent expenditures and debt
services requirements, in addition to a reasonable contribution to
its capital expenditures.

      (b)   Not later than one month prior to the start of each of
its fiscal years, the Borrower shall prepare and review with the
Bank a forecast of its revenues and expenditures for the next
following fiscal year.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                  operating revenues.

           (ii)   The term "recurrent expenditures" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding all
                  charges on debt.

          (iii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenses incurred on account of fixed assets.

           (iv)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and all other charges
                  on, debt.

            (v)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Mayor of Tehran is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:



      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)

            For the Borrower:

            Municipality of Tehran
            Behest Avenue
            Tehran, Iran

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MUNICIPALITY OF           213678 MUNT IR
                    TEHRAN

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                  MUNICIPALITY OF TEHRAN

                  By /s/ Mohammed Khazaee Torshizi
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works                     68,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(2) Goods                        600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures



(3) Consultants’               2,900,000        100% of foreign
    services                                    expenditures

(4) Unallocated                5,500,000
                             ___________

            TOTAL             77,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide basic
infrastructure for surface drainage in Tehran so as to eliminate or
reduce the adverse economic, environmental and health impact of
flooding; and (b) to strengthen the managerial and financial
capacity of the Borrower.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Drainage Works and Equipment

1.    Construction of main drainage interceptor system (third
outlet), consisting of (a) a concrete lined tunnel about 6.3 km
long, (b) a concrete lined open channel about 1.6 km long, (c) a
retention reservoir with about 600,000 m3 net capacity, and (d)
reinforced concrete pressure pipeline about 6 km long.

2.    Construction of a central surface water collector system,
(Khayam Main Drain), consisting of (a) a concrete lined tunnel about
10.6 km long, and (b) a reinforced concrete or asbestos cement pipe
about 3.7 km long.

3.    Construction of about 3 km asbestos cement pipes for lateral
drains, manholes, inlet structures and appurtenances.

4.    Provisions of maintenance equipment and spare parts.

Part B:     Technical Assistance

1.    Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for purposes
of management of construction works under the Project.

2.    Carrying out of studies with a view to formulate measures to
enhance the Borrower’s revenue base and financial management.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each June 15 and December 15



      beginning December 15, 1997
      through   December 15, 2008               3,210,000

On June 15, 2009                                3,170,000

________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                          The commission rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                           0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                           0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                             0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but                              0.88
      not more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years                                  1.00
      before maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Works for the construction of tunnels under Part A of the
Project shall be procured under a single contract to be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).

2.    Bidders for the construction of tunnels under Part A of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Works for other than the construction of tunnels under Part A
of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.



2.    Items of equipment may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Spare parts required for existing equipment, costing in the
aggregate the equivalent of not more than $100,000, may be procured
on the basis of contracts to be directly negotiated with the
suppliers thereof on terms satisfactory to the Bank.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to the contract to be procured according to
the procedures referred to in Part A.1 and the first contract to be
procured according to the procedures referred to in Part B.1 of this
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and



      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and



to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.