World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3501 IND

                 (Suralaya Thermal Power Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated August 26, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3501-IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) a loan (the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to three hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000) to assist in
financing, inter alia, the acquisition and installation of the
turbine generators for the coal-fired generating units under Part A
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ADB;

      (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from sources outside
Indonesia, export credits in an amount equivalent to six hundred
ninety-three million dollars ($693,000,000) to assist in financing
the steam generators and associated equipment under Part A of the
Project;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (D)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Federal
Republic of Germany a loan in an amount of Deutsche Marks
112,000,000 to assist in financing the construction of the
transmission lines under Part B of the Project; and

      (E) the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum Listrik
Negara (PLN) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PLN the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PLN;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals
            under the Loan would be inconsistent with
            the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
            the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.

      (b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided to
PLN under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (c)   "Governing Laws" means Law No. 19 of 1960, Law No. 9 of
1969, and Law No. 15 of 1985, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983,
Government Regulation No. 28 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 10
of 1989 and Government Regulation No. 17 of 1990, and any other
legal provisions in force at the time of this Agreement governing
the organization and operations of PLN, as any of them may be
amended or supplemented from time to time;

      (d) "Rupiah" means the Borrower’s currency; and

      (e) "Suralaya Thermal Power Plant" means the power plant
located at Suralaya designed to generate about 3,400 MW through
seven coal-fired generating units.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan



      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of four hundred twenty three million six hundred thousand
dollars ($423,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest



            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause PLN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of PLN therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable PLN to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.

      (b) The Borrower shall relend to PLN the proceeds of the Loan
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank including the following principal terms and
conditions: (i) PLN shall pay interest at a rate per annum on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time at a variable rate per annum equal to the sum of
the following: the interest rate paid by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.05 of this Agreement; plus a percentage fee to be
established by the Borrower for each payment date on the basis of
the average of the annual rate of change in the value of the Rupiah
in respect to the Dollar during the previous three years and to be
calculated in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the
Bank; plus one percent; (ii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan shall be repaid over 20 years including five years’ grace; and
(iii) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.

      (c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods , works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by PLN
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.



                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s proposed
investment plan for the next five fiscal years, including the
priorities assigned to the investments included under such plans and
the balance between the generation, transmission and distribution of
electric power likely to result from such investments;

      (b)   annually review with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s development
plan and associated financial forecast and financing plan provided
for in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement, and  take appropriate
measures to facilitate the access of PLN to  possible sources of
finance required for the implementation of such plans; and

      (c)   by September 30, 1993, furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments, its proposed: (i) periodic formula based tariff
adjustment mechanism, which formula, inter alia, to take into
account variations in fuel price and exchange rate plus inflation;
and (ii) action plan for implementing such tariff adjustment
mechanism.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all such actions as
shall be necessary to ensure that transfer of profits from PLN to
the Overall Development Fund (Dana Pembangunan Semesta) shall not
prevent PLN from implementing its annual investment plans referred
to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   PLN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PLN will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of PLN to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PLN or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or
by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.

      (f)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the Agreement providing
                         therefor, or



                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      (g)    The export credits from sources outside Indonesia
required to assist in financing the steam generators and associated
equipment under Part A of the Project shall have failed to become
effective by September 30, 1993, or such later date as may be agreed
by the Bank.

      (h)    The Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Federal Republic of Germany for the financing of the
construction of the transmission lines under Part B of the Project
shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1993, or such
later date as may be agreed by the Bank; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for
the financing of the construction of the transmission lines under
Part B of the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources outside Indonesia on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (g) of
this Agreement shall occur;

      (c) the event specified in paragraph (g) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso therein set
forth; and

      (d) the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(f) (ii) of such Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and PLN;

      (b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement; and

      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that the Central Commission for Environment
of the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy has approved the
Project for implementation.



      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance with
its terms; and

      (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   FINMINISTRY               44319 DJMLN IA
                   Jakarta                   45799 DEPKEU IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                   Cable address:          Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative



                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent   to be Financed

(1)  Marine Works              18,800,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures

(2)  Stacks (boiler            26,900,000       100% of foreign
     chimneys)                                  expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures

(3)  Goods                    272,600,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(4)  Consulting                47,000,000       100%
     Services for
     Part C (a) of
     the Project

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent   to be Financed

(5)  Consulting                 12,600,000      100%
     Services for
     Parts C (b), (c)
     and (d) of the
     Project, and training

(6)  Unallocated                45,700,000
                               -----------
     TOTAL                     423,600,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that



of the Borrower;

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand PLN’s
electricity generating capacity  through completion of the Suralaya
Thermal Power Plant; (b) to promote the economic use of coal for
electricity generation; (c) to develop PLN’s institutional capacity
to operate and maintain thermal power plants; and (d) to strengthen
PLN’s financial capacity.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

PART A:     Construction and installation of, and provision of
equipment and materials for, the coal-fired thermal generating units
5, 6 and 7 of 600 MW each of the Suralaya Power Thermal Power Plant,
including turbine generators, steam generators and associated
facilities.

PART B:     Construction of 500 kV transmission lines between
Cilegon and Cibinong to connect with the double-circuit lines from
Suralaya to Cilegon, including associated sub-stations and civil
works.

PART C:     Provision of technical assistance to PLN, inter alia,
for the carrying out of: (a) engineering, design and construction
supervision of the coal-fired thermal generating units under Part A
of the Project; (b) engineering and design of a proposed thermal
power plant to be located at Banjarmasin in South Kalimantan; (c) a
feasibilty study for the construction of high voltage submarine
cable link between Java and Sumatra; (d) its institutional
development; and (e) training for PLN’s staff in public utility
practices.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1998                             7,725,000
September 15, 1998                         8,025,000
March 15, 1999                             8,335,000
September 15, 1999                         8,655,000
March 15, 2000                             8,990,000
September 15, 2000                         9,335,000
March 15, 2001                             9,700,000
September 15, 2001                        10,075,000
March 15, 2002                            10,465,000
September 15, 2002                        10,865,000
March 15, 2003                            11,285,000
September 15, 2003                        11,725,000
March 15, 2004                            12,175,000
September 15, 2004                        12,645,000
March 15, 2005                            13,135,000



September 15, 2005                        13,645,000
March 15, 2006                            14,170,000
September 15, 2006                        14,720,000
March 15, 2007                            15,285,000
September 15, 2007                        15,880,000
March 15, 2008                            16,490,000
September 15, 2008                        17,130,000
March 15, 2009                            17,790,000
September 15, 2009                        18,480,000
March 15, 2010                            19,195,000
September 15, 2010                        19,935,000
March 15, 2011                            20,705,000
September 15, 2011                        21,505,000
March 15, 2012                            22,335,000
September 15, 2012                        23,200,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity