World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3511 TU

      (Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 27, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3511 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "HDA" means the Borrower’s Housing Development
Administration, or any successor thereto;

      (b)   "MPWS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and
Settlement, or any successor thereto;

      (c)   "Steering Committee" means the Borrower’s committee for
the Project to be established under the chairmanship of the Minister
of State, the coordinator of the emergency reconstruction program
for the Erzincan Region, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (d)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit for the
Project to be established within HDA in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (e)   "EMU" means the Erzincan Management Unit for the Project
to be established under PCU within HDA in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred eighty-five million dollars
($285,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency satisfactory to
the Bank a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.



      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.



                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments,
agencies or public authorities of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;



          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the PCU and EMU have been established, in
accordance within the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, and suitably qualified and experienced managers have
been appointed therefor;

      (b)   that the  Bank has been furnished with a copy of the
protocol approved by the Borrower between MPWS and Istanbul
Technical University relating to the design and technical
supervision of housing rehabilitation under the Project; and

      (c)   that the Bank has been furnished with a copy of the
protocol approved by the Borrower between MPWS and Middle East
Technical University relating to reconstruction of housing,
reconstruction and rehabilitation of schools and rehabilitation of
public buildings under the Project.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik Hazine Ve Disticaret
              Mustesarligi
            Inonu Bulvari
            Emek/Ankara
            Republic of Turkey

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MALIYE-HAZINE             821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                             821-42689 (ANK-TR)

                                           Rapifax:

                                             90-4-2128737

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for



              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                         By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works              170,000,000        100%

(2) Goods                     65,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3) Consultants’              40,000,000        100%
    services

(4) Unallocated               10,000,000

         TOTAL               285,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:



      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after March 13, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its 1992-1995 emergency reconstruction program for the
Erzincan Region affected by the earthquake of March 13, 1992,
through (1) rehabilitation and reconstruction of the areas damaged
by the earthquake, and (2) development and implementation of seismic
risk prevention and mitigation measures.

     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

(1)  Emergency demolition of destroyed and severely damaged
buildings and removal of debris to designated dump sites.

(2)  Reconstruction, rehabilitation and repair of unfinished
cooperative housing, government housing, urban commercial
facilities, hospitals, public buildings and rural barns and storage
sheds.

(3)  Rehabilitation of the municipal water supply, sewage,
electricity, roads and traffic light networks, and the state and
provincial and rural roads networks.

Part B:

(1)  Carrying out of studies on the following earthquake-related
matters:

     (a)  development and application of appropriate designs for
seismic risk prevention and mitigation, land-use and micro-zoning
plans, building codes and practices, disaster insurance practices,
and earthquake risk assessment and loss-reduction policies; and

     (b)  financial sustainability of the Borrower’s legal framework
for disaster reconstruction and rehabilitation.

(2)  Dissemination of information relating to the above through
public education and training of contractors and rural self-help
builders in the construction of earthquake-resistant structures.

Part C:

(1)  Provision of equipment, materials, technical assistance,
studies and training to be utilized in the design, management and
carrying out of the Borrower’s reconstruction program for the
Erzincan Region, including for the carrying out of Parts A and B of
the Project.



(2)  Provision of livestock to rural families to replace lost
income-producing livestock resulting from the earthquake.

                               * * *

     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

     beginning March 1, 1998
     through   September 1, 2009                11,875,000

_____________________________

*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
     determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

     Premiums on Prepayment

     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers



      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, and
livestock, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof: (a) bidders for
works shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines; (b) contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages
agreed with the Bank; and (c) works shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Works under Part A (1) of the Project may be carried out by
force account, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of prequalification:

      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part C.4(c) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each of: (i) the first two contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (ii) the
first two contracts for works; and (iii) the contracts for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.



3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

1.    Overall responsibility for the coordination of the carrying
out of the Project shall be assigned by the Borrower to the
Borrower’s Minister of State. Project execution shall be undertaken
by HDA which shall carry out its activities under the Project
through PCU and EMU to be established and maintained within HDA in
Ankara and Erzincan, respectively, with staff and other resources
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.

2.    PCU and EMU shall carry out the Project with the overall
policy guidance of the Steering Committee and in close coordination
with the Borrower’s Provincial Rescue and Aid Committee for
Erzincan, pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.

3.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants with
qualifications and experience, and under terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    The Borrower shall ensure that all reconstruction, rehabili-
tation and repairs under Part A (2) of the Project shall be
undertaken in accordance with seismic-resistant designs  approved by
a panel of experts in Turkey selected in agreement with the Bank.

5.    The Project shall be carried out on the basis of annual
programs of investment prepared by the Borrower and furnished to the
Bank for its approval, not later than March 31 of each year. The
Borrower shall ensure that only such investments shall be included
in each such annual program as are determined, in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to: (a) be part of the
Borrower’s 1992-1995 emergency reconstruction program for the
Erzincan Region whose carrying out has been or shall be initiated
after March 13, 1992 on the basis of time schedules acceptable to
the Bank; (b) have no adequate alternative source of finance for
their carrying out; (c) have cost-effective design standards and
represent least-cost alternatives; (d) utilize appropriate seismic-
resistance designs prepared pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
4 of this Schedule; (e) aim at restoring a service which existed
before the earthquake, or at augmenting services required to meet
new demands resulting from the Project; and (f) be technically
feasible and financially viable and be carried out in accordance
with appropriate environmental standards.

6.    (a)   Civil works under Part A (1) of the Project shall be
carried out by PCU through EMU.

      (b)   Civil works under Part A (2) of the Project shall be
carried out by PCU through EMU. Construction shall be carried out on
the basis of designs prepared in consultation with the owners of the
housing units and the commercial facilities and according to work
programs approved by the Borrower’s respective department or agency



responsible for the operation of housing facilities, public and
commercial buildings and hospitals to be reconstructed,
rehabilitated or repaired.

       (c)   Civil works under Part A (3) of the Project and the
procurement of the equipment, furniture and materials for the
networks and facilities to be rehabilitated thereunder shall be
carried out by PCU in coordination with the Borrower’s respective
department, agency or public authority.

7.    Construction and repair of rural barns and storage sheds shall
be carried out by PCU in coordination with the Borrower’s respective
department, agency or public authority.

8.    Costs incurred by the Borrower under the Project in the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and repairs of housing units and
commercial buildings and in the procurement and delivery of
construction materials and livestock to rural families shall be
recovered by the Borrower from the owners of the housing units and
commercial buildings and from the rural families receiving the
construction materials and livestock, in accordance with the
Borrower’s applicable policies and procedures for the recovery of
such costs.

9.    The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference and a time schedule agreed with
the Bank.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,



                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.



      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.