World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3509 HU

               (Product Market Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                     NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY

                       Dated August 24, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3509 HU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF
HUNGARY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;

      (C)   the Guarantor intends to obtain grant funds from donors
to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and
conditions to be set forth in grant agreements to be entered into
between each donor and the Guarantor; and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time;

      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (c)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Bank
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (d)   "Subsidiary Finance" means any loan provided under a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;

      (e)   "Participating Bank" means any banking institution with
which the Borrower shall have entered into a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;

      (f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project to
finance (i) investment expenditures, or (ii) permanent working
capital relating to inventories of raw materials, intermediate or
finished goods required for efficient operations;

      (g)   "Beneficiary" means enterprises which are related to
production and distribution of consumer goods and their components
at intermediate stages of production to which a Participating Bank
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;

      (h)   "Sub-project" means a specific project for establishment
of new, or for improvement of existing, operations involving
marketing, trade and distribution of consumer products;

      (i)   "Basic Law" means Law No. LX of 1991, of the Guarantor,
on the National Bank of Hungary; and

      (j)   "Banking Law" means the Guarantor’s Law No. LXIX of
1991.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.



      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in its books in Dollars a special deposit account
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates



            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (i) take all action required on its part to cause
the Project to be carried out by the Participating Banks and the
Guarantor, respectively, in accordance with appropriate technical,
administrative, financial and economic practices, and to enable the
Participating Banks and the Guarantor to perform their respective
obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose; and (iii) conduct its operations and affairs under the
Project in accordance with sound financial standards and practices,
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with the
Basic Law.

      (b)   For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to the Participating Banks the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
under Subsidiary Financing Agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Participating Banks under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include,
without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   For the purpose of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to the Guarantor the equivalent in
the currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and
services for Part B.1 of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2)
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Guarantor, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include, without
limitation, terms pursuant to which the Guarantor shall undertake to
(i) repay the principal amount so made available over a period of 15
years, inclusive of a grace period of five years, and (ii) pay
interest on the principal amount so made available and withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate set in conformity with the
basic rate charged from time to time by the Borrower pursuant to the
Basic Law.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing Agreements in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,



abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, any of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements, or any provisions thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall coordinate and monitor the
overall execution of the Project and supervise the carrying out by
the Participating Banks of their obligations pursuant to their
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements in accordance with
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B.1 of the
Project shall be carried out by the Guarantor pursuant to Section
3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
Part A of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                   said accounts for such year as so audited, and
                   (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
                   of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, and accounts as well as
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and



           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Basic Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   at least two Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been
signed on behalf of the Borrower and two eligible Participating
Banks;

      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf
of the Guarantor and the Borrower; and

      (c)   institutional arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
have been made for the purpose of carrying out Part B.1 of the
Project.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance
with its terms; and

      (b)   that each of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective
Participating Bank and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such
Participating Bank in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President, the Deputy President or the
General Manager of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General



Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International
              Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   BANKO                     227267 SMAFU-H
                   Budapest                  225755 BANKO-H or
                                             227028 BANKO-H

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                   NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY

                   By /s/ Andras Horvai
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures



     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Under Part A              99,200,000
    of the
    Project:

    (a)  goods                                  100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items,
                                                including related
                                                services, procured
                                                locally; 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for tech-
                                                nical licenses

    (b)  works                                  40%

    (c)  consultants’                           100%
         services

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(2) Under Part B.1               800,000
    of the Project:

    (a)  Consultants’                           100%
         services and
         training

    (b)  equipment,                             100% of foreign
         including                              expenditures,
         computer                               100% of local
         equipment and                          expenditures
         software                               (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
                             ___________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the opera-



tional and pricing efficiency and the enabling environment of
product markets so as to assist enterprises engaged in marketing,
trade and distribution activities to establish efficient new
operations or to improve the performance of existing operations.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Financial Assistance

      The financing of Sub-loans by Participating Banks to Benefi-
ciaries for Sub-projects aimed at establishing efficient new
operations or improving the performance of existing operations
related to marketing, trade and distribution activities.

Part B:     Technical Assistance

1.    Provision of services in logistics-related areas relating to
the improvement of marketing, trade and distribution activities.

2.    Training of commercial bank management and staff in evaluation
and supervision of projects in the marketing, trade and distribution
areas.

3.    Improvement of the market information system.

4.    Definition and supervision of standards and grades for
products.

5.    Supervision of the commodity exchanges.

6.    Strengthening of the food quality control system.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each March 1 and September 1

      beginning March 1, 1998
      through   March 1, 2007              5,000,000

And on September 1, 2007                   5,000,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:



Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods or works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000, may be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $500,000, may be awarded on the basis of price quotations
solicited from at least three eligible contractors.

3.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000, may be purchased, in accordance with the normal
commercial practices of the purchasers thereof, at reasonable
prices, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.

4.    Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees: (a) are of
proprietary nature; (b) the timely supply thereof is critical for
efficient Project execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other
installed equipment may be procured through direct negotiations with
the proprietors thereof, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.



Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

              Modification of the General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

                            SCHEDULE 6

               Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                  Subsidiary Financing Agreements

      Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the
principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.

A.    Terms

1.    The aggregate amount to be made available by the Borrower to
a Participating Bank under its respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement shall be equivalent in the currency of the Guarantor
(determined as of the respective date or dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods, works and services for the Sub-projects to be
carried out under Sub-loans made by such Participating Bank and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Category (1).

2.    The Subsidiary Finance shall be charged on the principal



amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time interest
at a rate of not less than the refinancing rate charged from time to
time by the Borrower.

3.    The Subsidiary Finance shall be charged on the principal
amount thereof not withdrawn and outstanding from time to time a
commitment fee at a rate equal to the commitment fee on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time as set forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.

4.    The Subsidiary Finance shall be for a period not exceeding
fifteen years, including a grace period of five years.

5.    The right of the Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds
of its respective Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) suspended for
processing of new Sub-loans upon failure by such Participating Bank
to perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreement; and (b) terminated if such right shall have
been suspended pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof for a continuous
period of sixty days.

B.Conditions

      A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a
banking institution, duly established and operating under the laws
of the Guarantor, which the Borrower shall have determined, and the
Bank shall have agreed, that such institution:

      (a)   (i)    meets the prevailing prudential regulatory
                   criteria, as required under the Banking Law;

           (ii)    is in good standing with the State Banking
                   Supervision Agency (SBS);

          (iii)    has acceptable lending policies and procedures;

           (iv)    has competent management in an appropriate
                   organization structure;

            (v)    is capable of appraising and supervising proj-
                   ects, engaging such technical assistance as
                   necessary for the purpose; and

            (vi)   has undertaken external audits according to
                   international auditing standards;

      (b)   has undertaken to have its staff trained in evaluation
of Sub-projects involving marketing, trade and distribution
operations under the program to be established for the purpose of
Part B.2 of the Project;

      (c)   has adopted and undertaken to maintain suitable
procedures to enable it effectively to:

            (i)    (A) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for Sub-
                   projects under Part A of the Project which
                   fulfill the eligibility criteria and on the
                   principal terms and conditions set forth in the
                   Annex to this Schedule, (B) exercise its rights
                   in relation to each such Sub-project in such
                   manner as to protect its interests and the
                   interests of the Bank and the Borrower, comply
                   with its obligations under its respective Sub-
                   sidiary Financing Agreement and achieve the
                   purposes of Part A of the Project, and (C) not
                   assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its
                   agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any
                   provision thereof, without the prior approval of
                   the Borrower;

            (ii)   carry out its activities under Part A of the
                   Project and conduct its operations and affairs



                   in accordance with appropriate financial stan-
                   dards and practices and in accordance with
                   appropriate lending policies and procedures
                   referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (iii) of this
                   Part, appraise Sub-projects, and supervise,
                   monitor and report on the carrying out by Bene-
                   ficiaries of Sub-projects, including the pro-
                   curement of the goods and works therefor, in
                   accordance with policies and procedures satis-
                   factory to the Bank and the Borrower;

            (iii)  exchange views with, and furnish all such infor-
                   mation to, the Bank or the Borrower, as may be
                   reasonably requested by the Bank or the Borrow-
                   er, with regard to the progress of its activi-
                   ties under Part A of the Project, the perfor-
                   mance of its obligations under its respective
                   Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other mat-
                   ters relating to the purposes of Part A of the
                   Project;

            (iv)   promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any
                   condition which interferes or threatens to
                   interfere with the progress of its activities
                   under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agree-
                   ment;

      (d)   has undertaken to: (i) maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial conditions; (ii) have its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower; (iii) furnish to
the Bank, through the Borrower, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for such
years as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors in such scope and detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank, through the
Borrower, such other information concering said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank or
the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 6

            Eligibility Criteria, Procedures, Principal
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

A.    Eligibility Criteria:

1.    Sub-projects eligible for financing shall relate to marketing,
trade and distribution activities of Beneficiaries including, but
not limited to wholesaling, retailing, warehousing, packaging,
materials handling and transportation, inventory management and
control, and services related to those activities.

2.    The following criteria shall apply for Beneficiaries and Sub-
projects in respect of Sub-loans in excess of the equivalent of
$300,000:

      (a)   each Beneficiary shall have established to the satisfac-
tion of the Participating Bank on the basis of guidelines satisfac-
tory to the Bank that: (i) it is creditworthy; (ii) its projected
cash generation or equity increases shall be sufficient to enable it
to meet the expenditures required for the Sub-project; (iii) it is
in a position to continue to maintain a current ratio not less than
1.3, a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 65/35, and a debt service
coverage not less than 1.5; and (iv) it has prepared a sound
business plan which would indicate its marketing arrangements,
operations and financing arrangement;



      (b)   Sub-projects have a projected financial rate of return
of at least 14 percent; and

      (c)   in case of financing of permanent working capital,
demonstration that the needs arise from (i) a planned investment, or
an investment undertaken not more than two years prior to the date
of application for such financing, and (ii) will result in improve-
ments in operations.

B.    Procedures:

1.    Each Sub-loan for an amount estimated to exceed the equivalent
of $5 million shall be made only after and to the extent the Sub-
project shall have been approved by the Bank.

2.    In case a proposed Sub-loan for a Sub-project requires,
because of its complexity or technologies involved, for its proper
evaluation expertise not available in the respective Participating
Bank, such Participating Bank shall, before its approval, have the
Sub-project evaluated by external experts and submit the report of
such evaluation to the Bank together with the documentation to be
submitted in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Part.

3.    Sub-loans in the principal amount of $300,000 or less shall be
made only to those Beneficiaries who qualify on the basis of the
applicable criteria of the respective Participating Bank for
determining creditworthiness and Sub-project viability.

4.    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs B.1
through B.3 of this Section, the first two Sub-loans proposed by any
Participating Bank, which has been involved in a previous operation
financed by the Bank, and the first three Sub-loans proposed by any
other Participating Bank are subject to prior approval by the Bank.

5.    No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-
project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than
ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request for approval or authorization in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 4 of this Part.

6.    Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Sub-loan other
than those approved in accordance with paragraph B.1 of this Part
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and the
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loans, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.

7.    The Participating Bank shall:

      (a)   open, by the date on which it shall receive the first
payment of interest or other charges thereon, or repayment of
principal under, a Sub-loan and thereafter maintain a separate
account on its books in accordance with its normal financial
practices and on conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower; and

      (b)   upon receipt of each such payment or repayments under
each Sub-loan, credit the same to the said separate account. All
amounts to be credited to the said separate account shall be
utilized by the Participating Bank to the extent they are not yet
required to meet the Participating Bank’s payment obligations to the
Borrower under its Subsidiary Financing Agreement, exclusively to
finance projects similar to Sub-projects in accordance with the
Participating Bank’s lending and investment policies.

C.    Terms:

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the date or



respective dates of withdrawals from the Loan Account or payments
from the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of the goods, works
or services for the Sub-project to be carried out under such Sub-
loan and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (1).

2.    Sub-loans shall each be made by a Participating Bank for a
period not exceeding ten years, including a grace period not
exceeding three years, and on other terms, including those relating
to interest and charges, which are in accordance with the lending
and investment policy statement of such Participating Bank accept-
able to the Bank.
3.    The total amount of a Sub-loan, or Sub-loans, to a Beneficiary
shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000 unless otherwise
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.

D.    Conditions:

      Each Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract with
the Beneficiary rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank, the Borrower and the Participating Bank, including, where
applicable that each Beneficiary shall undertake to:

      (a)   carry out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical and financial
standards, to provide promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities and
other resources required for the purpose, and to maintain adequate
records;

      (b)   comply with all applicable environmental regulations of
the Guarantor and obtain all necessary clearances;

      (c)   procure goods, works and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

      (d)   use such goods exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-project;

      (e)   enable the Participating Bank, the Bank and the Borrower
to inspect the sites, works, and construction included in the Sub-
project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;

      (f)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice; and

      (g) (i) prepare and promptly furnish to the Participating Bank
for forwarding to the Bank or the Borrower if so requested by the
Bank or the Borrower, all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
(ii) have its financial statements (balance sheets, income state-
ments and cash flow statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, (iii)
furnish to the Participating Bank, for forwarding to the Borrower or
the Bank if so requested by the Borrower or the Bank, (1) as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, certified copies of its financial statements for
such year so audited, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
or the Borrower shall have reasonably requested, and (2) such other
information concerning the accounts and records referred to in
paragraph (e) hereof, as the Bank, the Borrower and the Participat-
ing Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and (iv) ensure
the right of the Participating Bank to suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under
its contract with the Participating Bank providing for the Sub-loan.



                            SCHEDULE 7

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:



      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

      6.    (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.