World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3513 RU

                       (Rehabilitation Loan)

                              between

                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated November 16, 1992

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3513 RU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1992, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated July 20,
1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve economic stabilization and systemic
reforms in the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports and technical assistance required during such
execution; and

      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."

      (b)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
      sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to
      read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.".

      (d)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
      such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
      Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
      to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);

      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Russian
Federation; and

      (c)   "MIFCE" means the Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency
Exchange and such other domestic foreign currency exchanges as
identified by the Central Bank and the Bank.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of six hundred million dollars ($600,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly



notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in



Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) The Central Bank is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in
respect of Category (2) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.

      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications with respect to Category
(2) set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications, including the relevant
customs certificates for eligible imports and a statement of the
Central Bank’s sales of foreign currency on the MIFCE during the
period in which such imports have occurred, such statements to be
prepared for non-overlapping periods.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the
procurement activities under the Loan, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b)  The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.



      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                           ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the First Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            103097, Moscow
            Ilyinka Street 9
            Russian Federation

                                          Telex:

                                            112008

  For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.



            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                        By /s/ Vladimir P. Lukin
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds in accordance with the allocation of the Loan to
the following Categories, as such allocations to such Categories may
be changed by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank at any
time after reviews of the allocations, the first one to be
undertaken not later than December 31, 1992:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Pre-identified           348,000,000        100%
    imports

(2) Other imports            250,000,000        100%

(3) Consultants’               2,000,000        100%
    services

                             ___________

         TOTAL               600,000,000
                             ===========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods under Category (1) unless:



(i) the Borrower has established an adequately staffed project
implementation unit with functions and terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank; and (ii) the goods are included in a list of eligible
imports as agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (b)   expenditures for goods under Category (2) (i) unless the
Borrower has submitted to the Bank the agreement between the
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank acceptable to
the Bank defining the role and function of the Central Bank with
respect to the use of the funds reimbursed to the Borrower out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2); and (ii) in any
given calendar month after the date of this Agreement, if the
aggregate amount of withdrawals under this Category during such
month exceeds the lower of: (A) the aggregate amount of foreign
currency sold by the Central Bank on the MIFCE during such month, or
(B) $80,000,000 equivalent (the lower amount hereinafter referred to
as the Monthly Eligible Amount), provided, however, that withdrawals
may exceed the Monthly Eligible Amount by an amount equivalent to
the aggregate unwithdrawn portions of the preceeding Monthly
Eligible Amounts;

      (c)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco sub-
                                  stitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and associated
                                  materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                  stones, unworked or worked

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                  thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), nonirradiated or
                                  nuclear reactors

   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals (except
                                  watches and watch cases) and
                                  goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

  Group            Subgroup       Description of Items

   971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold
                                  ores and concentrates)

      (d)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (e)   payments made for expenditures in respect of goods
imported or services rendered prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $60,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) and
Category (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after June 15, 1992;

      (f)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing



less than $50,000 equivalent;

      (g)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

      (h)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods under Category (2) estimated to cost less than
$5,000,000 equivalent may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of
statements of expenditures under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

On each April 15 and October 15

      beginning April 15, 1998
      through October 15, 2007             30,000,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

1.    Subject to prior review in accordance with paragraph 1.10 of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), contracts for



the procurement of goods under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement shall be awarded through international competitive bidding
or other methods of procurement in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I, II and III of the
Guidelines, subject to the following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Business; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

      (d)   The provisions of paragraph 1.5 of the Guidelines shall
not apply as to the Loan for goods provided by nationals of, or
produced in or supplied from, republics of the former Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics.

2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods under Category (2) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement:

      (a)   estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 shall be awarded in accordance with established
commercial practice; and

      (b)   estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities maybe procured through organized international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    With respect to each contract which is not awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) hereof, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.