World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3448 IND

          (Primary Education Quality Improvement Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 18, 1992

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3448 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein and herein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "CPMU" means the Central Project Management Unit
established pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) to this Agreement;

      (b)   "MOEC" means the Ministry of Education and Culture of
the Borrower or any successor thereto responsible for education;

      (c)   "PPMUs" means the Provincial Project Management Units
established pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) to this Agreement;

      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (e)   "Special Assistance Funds" means the Special Assistance
Funds established pursuant to paragraph 5 (c) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;

      (f)   "SPP/CBSA Program" means the Teacher Professional
Support and Student Active Learning Program of MOEC;

      (g)   "SPP/CBSA Provinces" means the following provinces of
the Borrower: Aceh, Bali, North Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara Timur, West
Sumatra and Jogyakarta and any other province or provinces in
addition thereto or in substitution therefor as may be agreed to by
the Bank;

      (h)   "SPP Program" means the Teacher Professional Support
System Program of MOEC; and

      (i)   "Under-served Schools" means the Under-served Schools
identified and selected in accordance with paragraph 7 (a) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty seven million dollars ($37,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such



later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of



the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
MOEC with the assistance of CPMU and PPMUs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing



                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   a Central Project Management Unit, for the purpose of
assisting MOEC to carry out the Project, with an organizational and
management structure, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
established;

      (b)   a Project Director has been appointed as head of CPMU
with qualifications, experience, functions and powers, satisfactory
to the Bank;

      (c)   a Provincial Project Management Unit, for the purpose of
assisting MOEC to carry out the Project in each of the SPP/CBSA
Provinces, with an organizational and management structure,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been established; and

      (d)   a Project Manager has been appointed as head of each
PPMU with qualifications, experience, functions and powers,
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY               45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                   44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for



             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Equipment,               7,800,000        100% of foreign
      vehicles,                                 expenditures,
      materials, and                            100% of local
      printing and                              expenditures
      delivery services                         (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2)  Consultants’              3,400,000        100%
     services

(3)  Studies                   4,700,000        100%

(4)  Training                 14,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 50% of local
                                                expenditures

(5) Operating Costs            1,300,000        30%
    under Parts A, B (ii),
    C and D of the Project



                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6)  Special Assistance        3,700,000        50%
     Funds under
     Part B (i) of the
     Project

(7)  Unallocated               1,800,000
                              __________

     TOTAL                    37,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "Operating Costs" means the costs of
operational support of project related activities, namely,
attendance at and participation in meetings and seminars (including
payment of honoraria), printing and distribution of documents, and
operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles provided for the
Project under this Agreement.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b) under
Category (6) until the Bank has been provided with evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that (i) the principals of the Under-
served Schools have been trained, and (ii) the Special Assistance
Funds have been established and policies and guidelines to operate
and maintain the same have been adopted and put into effect pursuant
to paragraph 5 (b) and (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to
improve primary education quality aimed at raising students’
educational achievement and completion rates.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Teaching-Learning Processes

      (i)   Carrying out of a SPP Program, including provision of
            technical assistance, training, equipment, vehicles,
            materials, and operational support for the expansion and
            development of the SPP/CBSA Program.

     (ii)   Undertaking a feasibility study for enhancing promotion
            opportunities for primary teachers, including technical
            assistance, training and operational support.

    (iii)   Enhancement of policies and mechanisms for the adequate
            supply of books, educational materials, the development
            and supply of those educational materials, and
            professional support to teachers, including technical



            assistance, training, equipment, materials, printing and
            delivery services, and operational support.

Part B:     Equitable Resource Base for Under-served Schools

      (i)   Provision of Special Assistance Funds to the Under-
            served Schools for quality improvement.

     (ii)   Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment
            and operational support for the development and
            implementation of mechanisms to select the schools and
            to channel the Special Assistance Funds to such schools,
            procedures for supervising and monitoring the Special
            Assistance Funds, and training of school principals in
            resource management.

Part C:     Management of Quality Improvement Programs

      Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment,
vehicles, materials and operational support for:

      (i)   Strengthening the administrative support to primary
            schools at the central and regional levels.

     (ii)   Improving financial planning and budgetary processing of
            the Borrower’s educational agencies including its
            Ministry of Education and Culture, the Regional
            Administration Education Services Office (DINAS P&K),
            and the Regional Development Planning Board (BAPPEDA).

    (iii)   Enhancing of MOEC’s institutional capabilities to
            develop and implement monitoring and evaluation and
            policy studies on primary education; develop national
            quality standards for primary schools; and provide
            information, education and communication (IEC) in
            respect of the Project’s quality improvement objectives
            to educational personnel, parents of school children,
            and communities.

Part D:     Project Management

      Management, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of
the Project, including provision of technical assistance, staff
training, equipment, vehicles and operational support.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1997.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

October 1, 1997                              675,000
April 1, 1998                                700,000
October 1, 1998                              730,000
April 1, 1999                                755,000
October 1, 1999                              785,000
April 1, 2000                                815,000
October 1, 2000                              845,000
April 1, 2001                                880,000
October 1, 2001                              915,000
April 1, 2002                                950,000
October 1, 2002                              985,000
April 1, 2003                              1,025,000
October 1, 2003                            1,065,000
April 1, 2004                              1,105,000



October 1, 2004                            1,145,000
April 1, 2005                              1,190,000
October 1, 2005                            1,240,000
April 1, 2006                              1,285,000
October 1, 2006                            1,335,000
April 1, 2007                              1,385,000
October 1, 2007                            1,440,000
April 1, 2008                              1,495,000
October 1, 2008                            1,555,000
April 1, 2009                              1,615,000
October 1, 2009                            1,675,000
April 1, 2010                              1,740,000
October 1, 2010                            1,810,000
April 1, 2011                              1,880,000
October 1, 2011                            1,950,000
April 1, 2012                              2,030,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of



$200,000 or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Except as provided in paragraph 3 hereof, equipment, materials
(other than materials referred to in paragraph 4 hereof), and
printing and delivery services, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $4,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank, such procedures to include the
following: (i) advising bidders through the General Procurement
Notice, in the specific advertisements published inviting bids for
each package, and in the bidding documents, that import licenses
shall be made available for foreign vehicles in a timely manner to
comply with the delivery requirements set forth in the bidding
documents; and (ii) issuing of import licenses for foreign vehicles
to the successful bidder in a timely manner to comply with the
delivery requirements set forth in the bidding documents.

3.    Equipment, materials (other than materials referred to in
paragraph 4 hereof), and printing and delivery services, estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Contracts for books, computer software and educational
materials, shall be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods (other than
vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and
for each contract for vehicles, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized



withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
Action Plan for Primary Education Policy and Program Development,
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall, by October 1, 1992 appoint SPP/CBSA tutors
in SPP/CBSA Provinces in accordance with conditions of service
satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    The Borrower shall, by October 1 of each year commencing in
1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
an annual Project implementation plan in accordance with a Project
Monitoring Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, and a proposed budget,
and, thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance with such plan
and budget, taking into account the comments of the Bank.

4.    (a) The Borrower shall carry out in consultation with the
Bank: (i) by October 1 of each year commencing in 1993, an annual
progress review, and (ii) by March 31, 1995, a mid-term progress
review, of the implementation of the Project.

      (b) The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Bank Project
reviews and progress reports taking into account performance targets
established by the Borrower for each part of the Project, such
performance targets to be updated annually in consultation with the
Bank.

5.    (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, undertake and
complete, in consultation with the Bank, a study on the
establishment of Special Assistance Funds for the purpose of
supplying funds to principals of Under-served Schools for quality
improvement of Under-served Schools in accordance with the Terms of
Reference satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b) The Borrower shall train principals of Under-served
Schools in accordance with a training plan satisfactory to the Bank.

      (c) The Borrower shall (i) establish Special Assistance Funds
in accordance with the recommendations of the study referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) hereof, and (ii) adopt and put into effect
policies and guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to maintain and
operate the Special Assistance Funds.
6.    The Borrower shall maintain the CPMU and PPMUs with funds and
staff in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    (a)   The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, identify and
select Under-served Schools, from amongst its primary schools, in
accordance with criteria, procedures and data base(s) satisfactory
to the Bank.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, by April 1 of each year, commencing
in 1993, furnish to the Bank an annual training plan for principals
of Under-served Schools satisfactory to the Bank.



                           SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:



      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.