World Bank Document


                                                      CONFORMED COPY

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3496 IND

            (Primary School Teacher Development Project)

                               between

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                 and

                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated August 26, 1992

                                                   Loan No. 3496-IND

                           LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                              ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)   "DGHE" means the Borrower’s Directorate General of Higher
Education;

      (b)   "D-II" means a four to five semesters’ post secondary
school diploma course;

      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning
April 1 and ending March 31;

      (d)   "IKIP" means a Teacher Training Institute;

      (e)   "FKIP" means a Faculty of Education at a University;

      (f)   "LPTK" means a Teacher Training Institute, or a Faculty of
Education at a University, or a Teacher Training College;

      (g)   "PGSD" means the education of primary school teachers;

      (h)   "S1" means an undergraduate degree program;

      (i)   "S2" means a two-year master’s level post graduate program;

      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (k)   "UPP" means the Program Implementation Unit for the
education of primary school teachers.

                             ARTICLE II

                              The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of thirty six million six hundred thousand dollars
($36,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.



      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified
                  in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with
                  the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
                  signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
                  as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s
                  investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
                  Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                  determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
            the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
            such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.



      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE III

                      Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through DGHE with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, educational, and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE IV

                         Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than nine months after the end of
                  each such year, the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such



                  expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the
                  procedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                              ARTICLE V

                             Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE VI

              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN JKT
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU JKT

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                           Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                             Regional Vice President
                                               East Asia and Pacific

                             SCHEDULE 1

               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works                4,500,000        50%

(2) Equipment                  1,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Learning and               1,400,000        50%
    teaching materials
    and printing services

(4) Consultants’               1,700,000        100%
    services

(5) Fellowships:

    (a) In-country             5,200,000        50%

    (b) Overseas              14,000,000        100%

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(6) Research and               1,600,000        100%
    studies

(7) In-country training        1,100,000        50%

(8) Scholarships               3,800,000        70%

(9) Unallocated                2,300,000
                               ---------
        TOTAL                 36,600,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:



      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                     Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to enhance the training of
primary school teachers, through a new tertiary level teacher diploma
course.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Developing Primary Teacher Educators

1.    Provision of overseas study tours for about fifty pre-service and
in-service program managers of PGSD to review primary teacher training
programs, and carrying out of workshops for the preparation of local
short- and long-term training programs.

2.    Provision of short-term overseas training for about 270 teacher
educators.

3.    Provision of short-term local training for about 730 teacher
educators and about 1,600 practice teaching supervisors from primary
schools, and provision of local workshops and short-term training to
UPP managers on reforms in PGSD management.

4.    Provision of overseas graduate degree programs in primary
education to about 175 teachers.

5.    Provision of local long-term training, including S1 programs for
about 700 PGSD teachers, S2 programs for about 100 teachers, and a D-II
program in librarianship for the librarians of the 98 UPPs.

6.    Provision of technical assistance for the development and
evaluation of the training programs for primary educators and UPP
managers.

Part B:     Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs

      Improvement of the curriculum of the pre-service and in-service
programs, including provision of workshops, writing and field testing
of curricular materials, printing and distribution of curricular
materials to UPPs, acquisition of equipment and library materials, and
provision of technical assistance for the improvement of the primary
curriculum.

Part C:     Establishing a Coordinated System for
            Teacher Supply and Distribution

1.    Development of a formula for determining the number of primary
teachers needed in primary schools in different areas of Indonesia;
carrying out of workshops for the development of student selection and
recruitment systems, and for the development and operation of a teacher
supply information and mapping system; and provision of technical
assistance for the development of the teacher supply information and
mapping system.



2.    Provision of two and a half years’ scholarships to about 4,500
needy students from isolated teacher-shortage areas.

3.    Construction of dormitories at selected UPPs with about 3,200
places for students recruited from teacher-shortage rural areas.

Part D:     Building Research and Development Capacity

1.    Carrying out of six policy studies at the national level, on: (i)
incentives for primary school teachers, (ii) learning needs and
characteristics of PGSD recruits, (iii) demographic change and primary
school teacher supply and demand, (iv) the quality of instruction in
the PGSD program, (v) primary school teacher appointment and placement,
and (vi) systems for D-II in-service training in remote areas.

2.    Provision of about 20 grants to LPTK research teams for applied
research.

3.    Carrying out of pilot studies by primary school teachers under
LPTK guidance to examine how to improve teaching methods.

4.    Establishment of a Center for Primary Education Research and
Development at IKIP Yogyakarta.

5.    Provision of technical assistance to the Project Implementation
Unit in DGHE for research and development activities of the Unit.

Part E:     Strengthening the Primary Teacher Education System

      Strengthening management structures and procedures at the DGHE,
LPTK and UPP levels, including carrying out of a study on the
management processes of DGHE, LPTK and UPP, and provision of related
technical assistance.

                                * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.

                             SCHEDULE 3

                        Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

March 15, 1998                             665,000
September 15, 1998                         695,000
March 15, 1999                             720,000
September 15, 1999                         750,000
March 15, 2000                             775,000
September 15, 2000                         805,000
March 15, 2001                             840,000
September 15, 2001                         870,000
March 15, 2002                             905,000
September 15, 2002                         940,000
March 15, 2003                             975,000
September 15, 2003                       1,015,000
March 15, 2004                           1,050,000
September 15, 2004                       1,095,000
March 15, 2005                           1,135,000
September 15, 2005                       1,180,000
March 15, 2006                           1,225,000
September 15, 2006                       1,270,000
March 15, 2007                           1,320,000
September 15, 2007                       1,370,000
March 15, 2008                           1,425,000
September 15, 2008                       1,480,000
March 15, 2009                           1,535,000
September 15, 2009                       1,595,000
March 15, 2010                           1,660,000
September 15, 2010                       1,720,000



March 15, 2011                           1,790,000
September 15, 2011                       1,860,000
March 15, 2012                           1,930,000
September 15, 2012                       2,005,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General
      Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                       Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to
be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time
of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                             SCHEDULE 4

                Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works, goods and printing services shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Office and laboratory equipment and computers estimated to cost
the equivalent of $ 50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $ 200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Books and other instructional materials may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, or such contracts
may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.



Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $ 200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                             SCHEDULE 5

                       Implementation Program

1.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall take
all measures necessary to ensure that those returning from overseas and
local degree programs (i) are offered appropriate positions in PGSD,
and (ii) are required to serve in PGSD positions for a period equal to
twice the number of years of their degree program plus one additional
year.

2.    In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   not later than August 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank for
comments the proposed formula, and, thereafter, establish a formula
taking into account the Bank’s comments on the proposal; and

      (b)   take all measures necessary to ensure that recipients of
scholarships from isolated areas where there is a teacher shortage,
serve in such areas for a period equal to two times the number of years
they received financial assistance plus one additional year.

3.    In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   furnish the results of the studies to the Bank for its
comments, and to the Research Task Force within DGHE for its
recommendations on how the results of the studies should be
incorporated into a DGHE action plan; and

      (b)   establish, not later than October 31, 1992, a Research



Quality Control Board within DGHE with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank.

4.    In carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   by April 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan
indicating staffing and organizational arrangements to strengthen
management of its teacher education programs and, thereafter, carry out
such plan, taking into account the comments of the Bank, in accordance
with a timetable acceptable to the Bank; and

      (b)   not later than December 31, 1995, furnish to the Bank for
comments, the recommendations of the management study, and, thereafter,
prepare and carry out an action plan taking into account the Bank’s
comments on the recommendations.

5.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementation
Unit to furnish to the Bank by each April 30 and October 31, commencing
April 30, 1993, semi-annual Project progress reports.

6.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by December 31 in each
year, commencing December 31, 1993, a review of the implementation of
the previous and current year budgets for the primary teacher education
program, together with a plan and a proposed budget for the following
fiscal year; and, thereafter, make final budgetary allocations taking
into account the Bank’s comments on the proposed budget.

7.    The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1994, in
consultation with the Bank, carry out a mid-term review of the
implementation of the Project, and, thereafter, promptly carry out any
agreed recommendations.

8.    Whenever the Borrower determines, during the Project
implementation period, that the Borrower’s present limit of 8,000
yearly participants in the D-II PGSD program is too low, the Borrower
shall consult with the Bank before taking any action to increase such
limit.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                           Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,900,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,



on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
                   as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                   and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                   of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                   respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                   basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                   shall have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,



promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.