World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3418 TUN

             (Gas Infrastructure Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

       SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L’ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ -- STEG

                         Dated May 5, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3418 TUN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE
L’ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ -- STEG (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) The Republic of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      WHEREAS: (B) By an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith entered into by and between the Guarantor and the
Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of the Loan, and to undertake such other
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS: (C) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement.

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l), and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
      3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Central Bank" means the Guarantors’s Central Bank
(Banque Centrale de Tunisie), established and operating pursuant to
the Guarantor’s Law No. 58-90, dated September 19, 1958;

      (b)   "Economic Cost" means cost, insurance and freight at
border price plus local transportation and distribution costs;

      (c)   "ETAP" means the Borrower’s Tunisian Company for
Petroleum Activities (Entreprise Tunisienne d’Activites
Petrolicres), established and operating pursuant to the Guarantor’s
Law No. 72-22, dated March 10, 1972, as supplemented by the Guaran-
tor’s Decree No. 73-173, dated April 16, 1973;

      (d)   "STEG Performance Plan" means the STEG enterprise
performance plan (STEG Contrat Programme), agreed to between the
Borrower and the Guarantor, setting forth, inter alia, the Bor-
rower’s financial action plan for achieving its financial perfor-
mance objectives, standards and targets for the period 1992 through
1996, and the Guarantor’s related rights and obligations, including
the taking of all necessary measures in connection therewith;

      (e)   "Financial Cost" means all of the following costs: fuel
costs at border prices plus transportation and distribution costs to
power stations, operating costs including depreciation and interest,
foreign exchange losses incurred during each Fiscal Year (as such
term is defined hereinafter), and provision for unrealized foreign
exchange losses on debt service projected for the following five (5)
Fiscal Years;

      (f)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year;

      (g)   "Long Run Marginal Cost" means the optimal investment
and associated operating and maintenance expenses required per unit
of energy output to increase the size of an energy producer’s plant,
so as to adjust output to the increased energy demand;

      (h)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
by the Borrower pursuant to its Directorate Instruction No. 26/91,
dated October 14, 1991, which Unit shall be maintained by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 of this
Agreement;

      (i)   "Refined Petroleum Products" means the following



products manufactured from crude oil: supergrade gasoline, regular
grade gasoline, heavy fuel oil and gas oil;

      (j)   "SCADA" means the Borrower’s gas supply supervisory
control and data acquisition system, referred to in Part B of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and

      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings



                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, commercial, administrative, engineering, gas
industry and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare, based on terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment, not later than December 31, 1992, a manual
which shall include the standards, rules and procedures for, inter
alia, operational emergency, safety and environmental protection in
respect of all of the Borrower’s gas operations, including its
pipeline construction and gas transmission operations; and (b)
promptly thereafter apply said manual with due diligence and
efficiency, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.

       Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September
30 in each Fiscal Year, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its
review and comment, a consolidated electricity and gas demand
forecast and investment program for the immediately following five
(5) Fiscal Years; and (b) promptly thereafter carry out said program
with due diligence and efficiency.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31,



1992, hire qualified consultants, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare a gas sector development and
rationalization study; (b) not later than March 31, 1993, submit the
findings and recommendations of said study to the Bank for its
review and comment; and (c) not later than June 30, 1993 implement
the recommendations of the study as mutually agreed upon between the
Bank and the Borrower.

      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor providing
for the Borrower’s and Guarantor’s respective obligations for the
carrying out of the STEG Performance Plan; and

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under said contractual arrangements in such a manner
so as to effectively implement, or cause the implementation of, the
provisions of the STEG Performance Plan, and ensure full compliance
with its obligations under Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of this Agreement,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the said contractual
arrangements.

      Section 3.06. For the purposes of coordinating, administering
and supervising the overall carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project
Implementation Unit (the PIU) within its gas operations directorate,
in a form and with such composition and functions as shall at all
times be satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                         ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound economic, financial,
commercial, engineering, administrative, gas industry and environ-
mental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, installations, pipelines, machinery, equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound economic, financial, commercial, engineering, administrative,
gas industry and environmental practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times promptly take
any and all action necessary to: (a) maintain its corporate exis-
tence and right to carry on its operations; and (b) acquire,
maintain, renew and otherwise exercise any and all rights
(including, but without limitation, land rights), powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
operations and its carrying out of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.



      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements) and the records
                   and accounts for the Special Account for each
                   Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
                   its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
      the Borrower shall produce, for each of its Fiscal Years ending on
      December 31, 1991, December 31, 1992, and December 31, 1993 funds
      from internal sources equivalent to not less than twenty-five
      percent (25%), and for each of its Fiscal Years ending after
      December 31, 1993 funds from internal sources equivalent to not less
      than thirty percent (30%), of the annual average of the Borrower’s
      capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
      year, the previous year and the next following Fiscal Year.

      (b)   Before September 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such
year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in said paragraph (a) for the



Borrower’s Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, net non-operating
                         income and any reduction in working
                         capital other than cash; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                         tions, including administration, adequate
                         maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                         of taxes (excluding provision for
                         depreciation and other non-cash operating
                         charges), debt service requirements, all
                         cash dividends and other cash distribu-
                         tions of surplus, increase in working
                         capital other than cash and other cash
                         outflows other than capital expenditures.

            (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   fiscal year.

           (iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets which could in the ordinary course of
                   business be converted into cash within twelve
                   months, including accounts receivable,
                   marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
                   expenses properly chargeable to operating
                   expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all liabi-
                   lities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months, in-
                   cluding accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                   lieu of taxes, and dividends.

           (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.

          (vii)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets, includ-
                   ing interest charged to construction, related to
                   operations.

         (viii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of



                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
commencing with its Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1992, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence, or for a later twelve (12) month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least one and one-half (1-1/2) times the estimated maximum debt
service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.

      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one (1)
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.
           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt, or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.

          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations adjusted to take
                         account of the Borrower’s rates in effect
                         at the time of the incurrence of debt even
                         though they were not in effect during the
                         twelve (12) month period to which such
                         revenues relate and net non-operating
                         income; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                         tions including administration, adequate
                         maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                         taxes, but excluding provision for depre-
                         ciation, other non-cash operating charges
                         and interest and other charges on debt.

            (iv)   The terms "net non-operating income" and "debt
                   service requirements" mean the same as set forth
                   in Sections 5.02 (d) (ii) and 5.02 (d) (vi) of
                   this Agreement, respectively.

            (v)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
not later than September 30 of each Fiscal Year, commencing with its
Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1992, furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment, in addition to those items required under
subparagraphs (b) (ii) and (iii) of said Section 5.01, separate pro



forma income and sources and application of funds statements for the
immediately preceding Fiscal Year in respect of all of the Bor-
rower’s gas and electricity operations, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994, take all action necessary to ensure that its gas and
electricity operations, shall generate sufficient funds so as to
cover their respective Financial Cost.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the Borrower and the Guarantor shall have entered into the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement and Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement, pursuant to
the provisions thereof.

      Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The President Director General of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Societe Tunisienne de
              l’Electricite et du Gaz
            38 Rue Kemal Attaturk
            Tunis
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:Telex:

                   GAZELEC                   12020
                   Tunis                     TUN

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR



                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ C.K. Koch-Weser

                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                   SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L’ELECTRICITE ET
                     DU GAZ -- STEG

                   By /s/ Ismail Khelil

                                         Authorized Representative

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works                     11,200,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(2) Goods                     43,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Consultants’                 700,000        100%
    services and
    training

(4) Unallocated                4,300,000

    TOTAL                     60,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.



                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
developing, inter alia: (a) a least cost energy supply alternative
to its traditional gas markets; (b) a gas infrastructure network
within the southern part of the Guarantor’s territory; (c) an
increased natural gas penetration into its industrial and premium
fuels markets; and (d) an appropriate gas sector strategy.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Natural Gas Transmission and Distribution System
            Extensions

1.    Construction of a natural gas transmission pipeline of
approximately two hundred and forty kilometers (240 km.) in length
to connect an existing twenty inch (20 in.) diameter pipeline
located in the Guarantor’s northern city of M’Saken to the existing
industrial natural gas network located in the Guarantor’s southern
city of Gabes, supplying along its route, through necessary dis-
tribution facilities, new natural gas consumers in, inter alia, the
Guarantor’s cities of Jemmel/Zeramdine, Sfax, Agareb and Skhira.

2.    Construction of a twenty inch (20 in.) diameter natural gas
pipeline loop of approximately six kilometers (6 km.) in the area of
the Guarantor’s capital city of Tunis, as part of the future Tunis
area gas loop line.

3.    Construction of a five kilometer (5 km.) extension to an
existing eight inch (8 in.) diameter natural gas pipeline to connect
the eastern and western parts of the Tunis city natural gas network.

4.    Provision of maintenance equipement and computer software
material to improve the Borrower’s operational efficiency and gas
supply security.

Part B:    Technical Assistance

1.    Carrying out of the following studies, all on the basis of
terms of reference and implementation schedules satisfactory to the
Bank: (a) a study analyzing the supply of gas by the Borrower
throughout the Guarantor’s territory, including an examination of
gas loads and gas network configurations; (b) a study developing on
a nationwide basis the SCADA system; and (c) a study on gas sector
development and rationalization.

2.    Provision of training of the Borrower’s technical staff,
including training abroad, inter alia, in the areas of SCADA usage,
and related sales engineering and conversion.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                       Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      Beginning August 1, 1997
      Through August 1, 2008               2,500,000

On February 1, 2009                        2,500,000



_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                     Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity

More than eleven years but not             0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity

More than fifteen years before             1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of five
million six hundred thousand dollars ($5,600,000) or more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1. hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of three million two
hundred thousand dollars ($3,200,000), may be procured under



contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at
least three (3) qualified suppliers and contractors eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55, 2.56 thereof).

2.    Proprietary and standardization goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($250,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of three million two hundred thousand dollars
($3,200,000), may be awarded after direct negotiations with sup-
pliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods or works
estimated to cost the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000)
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be fur-
nished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of twenty percent (20%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and



      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   Eligible Expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expendi-
tures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of thisSchedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   If, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and



to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.