World Bank Document


                                                     CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3450 KO

                (Pusan and Taejon Sewerage Project)

                              between

                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 21, 1992

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3450 KO

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;

      (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Pusan
City Government (Pusan) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Pusan
part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;

      (C)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by Taejon
City Government (Taejon) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Taejon part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Pusan Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Pusan, and in
the Taejon Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and Taejon;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
            of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles
            of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Pusan" means the Pusan City Government;

      (b)   "Pusan Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Pusan of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Pusan Project Agreement;

      (c)   "Taejon" means the Taejon City Government;

      (d)   "Taejon Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Taejon of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Taejon Project Agreement;

      (e)   "Pusan Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Pusan pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Pusan Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (f)   "Taejon Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Taejon pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Taejon Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Pusan IBRD Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Taejon IBRD Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and

      (i)   "Sewerage Master Plan" means each of the plans which
outlines the development of the sewer systems and treatment of
wastewater in Pusan and Taejon respectively, each such plan in
effect until 2001.

                            ARTICLE II



                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of forty million dollars ($40,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
the Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Pusan IBRD
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
the Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Taejon IBRD
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July



                   1, 1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
            interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
            the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
            in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause:

            (i)     Pusan to perform in accordance with the provi-
      sions of the Pusan Project Agreement all the obligations of
      Pusan therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
      action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
      services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
      enable Pusan to perform such obligations, and shall not take
      or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
      interfere with such performance, and

            (ii)    Taejon to perform in accordance with the
      provisions of the Taejon Project Agreement all the
      obligations of Taejon therein set forth, shall take or cause
      to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
      facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
      appropriate to enable Taejon to perform such obligations,
      and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
      would prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to
$20,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan to Pusan under the
Pusan Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Pusan, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include those set forth in
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Pusan Project Agreement.



      (c)   The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to
$20,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Loan to Taejon under the
Taejon Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Taejon, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank which shall include those set forth in
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Taejon Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Pusan
and Taejon Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
either the Pusan Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Taejon
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision of either thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried
out by Pusan and Taejon pursuant to Section 2.03 of each of the
Pusan Project Agreement and the Taejon Project Agreement,
respectively.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Pusan and Taejon IBRD Special
                   Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,



                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Pusan or Taejon shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Pusan and Taejon Project
Agreements.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Pusan or Taejon will be
able to perform their respective obligations under the Pusan and
Taejon Project Agreements.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Pusan Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and Pusan; and

      (b)   the Taejon Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and Taejon.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Pusan Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by Pusan, and is legally binding upon Pusan in
accordance with its terms;

      (b)   that the Taejon Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by Taejon, and is legally binding upon Taejon in
accordance with its terms;

      (c)   that the Pusan Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Pusan and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Pusan in accordance with its terms;
and

      (d)   that the Taejon Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Taejon and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Taejon in accordance with
its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of



this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea

           Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MOF                        K 23243
                   Kwachon, Korea

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

=     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.

                   REPUBLIC OF KOREA

                       /s/ Koo, Bohn Young
                   By
                                         Authorized Representative

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                      /s/ G. Kaji
                   By
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the



amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Equipment and             20,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials for                             expenditures,
      Pusan under                               100% of local
      Part A of the                             expenditures
      Project                                   (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2)   Equipment and             20,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials for                             expenditures,
      Taejon under                              100% of local
      Part B of the                             expenditures
      Project                                   (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                                __________

           TOTAL                40,000,000
                                ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to enhance the
environmental conditions of Pusan and Taejon; and (ii) to support
technogical and institutional improvement in the sewerage sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Pusan

1.    Construction of the first phase of a sewage treatment plant
at Yongho, a sewage pumping station, and interceptors.

2.    Utilization of technical services to update the Pusan
Sewerage Master Plan, and to supervise construction of the sewage
treatment plant.



Part B:     Taejon

1.    Construction of the second phase of an existing sewage
treatment plant at Wonchon Dong, and interceptors.

2.    Utilization of technical services to update the Taejon
Sewerage Master Plan, and to supervise construction of the sewage
treatment plant.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      On each February 15
      and August 15                        2,000,000

      Beginning August 15, 1997
      ending on February 15, 2007

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding



      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Korea may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 for each Part A and Part B respectively,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Pusan
and Taejon IBRD Special Accounts, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the said Special Accounts in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Pusan and Taejon IBRD
Special Accounts, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 5 and 6 to
this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

      2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                    Pusan IBRD Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in



accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Pusan IBRD Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Pusan IBRD Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Pusan IBRD Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Pusan IBRD Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Pusan IBRD Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Pusan IBRD Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                   requests for deposits into the Pusan IBRD
                   Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                   shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Pusan IBRD Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Pusan IBRD Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Pusan IBRD
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Pusan IBRD Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Category, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part A
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of



the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Pusan
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Pusan IBRD Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Pusan IBRD Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Pusan IBRD Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Pusan IBRD Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Pusan
IBRD Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                           SCHEDULE 6

                    Taejon IBRD Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Taejon IBRD Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Taejon IBRD Special Account shall be
made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Taejon IBRD Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Taejon IBRD Special Account shall be made as
follows:



      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Taejon IBRD Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Taejon IBRD Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                   requests for deposits into the Taejon IBRD
                   Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                   shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Taejon IBRD Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Taejon IBRD Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Taejon IBRD
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Taejon IBRD Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Category, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part B
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Taejon
IBRD Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Taejon IBRD Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank



may request; or (B) deposit into the Taejon IBRD Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Taejon IBRD Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Taejon IBRD Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Taejon
IBRD Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.