World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3617 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

                (First Municipal Finance Project -
                   Communal Infrastructure Fund)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

                   COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND

                        Dated June 14, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3617 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMMUNAL INFRA-
STRUCTURE FUND (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations, as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and

      (C)   the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the Guarantor to
assist in the financing of activities related to the Project, upon
the terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank (the Kingdom Loan
Agreement); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                        General Conditions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Beneficiary in part out of the proceeds of the
Loan for a Development Project;

      (c)   "Beneficiary" means (i) a provincial, prefectural or
municipal administration of the Guarantor, (ii) a legally
constituted association of such administrations or (iii) an entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of,
any such administration, to which the Borrower proposes to make or
has made a Sub-loan;

      (d)   "Development Project" means a specific development
project referred to in Part A of the Project to be carried out by a
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;

      (e)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
financial policies approved by the Directors of the Borrower on
May 7, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (f)   "Charter" means the Guarantor’s Law No. 31-90
promulgated by Dahir No. 1-92-5 dated August 5, 1992, and the
Guarantor’s Decree No. 2-90-351 dated December 14, 1992, pursuant to
which the Borrower was reorganized and is operating, as the same may
be amended from time to time;

      (g)   "Fiscal Year" means the calendar year, commencing on
January 1 and ending on December 31;

      (h)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (i)   "Kingdom Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank for a First
Municipal Finance Project (Loan No.      MOR);

      (j)   "Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme" means the scheme
established pursuant to the Letter dated May 10, 1993 from the
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance to the Borrower, for the protection
of the Borrower against the risk of foreign exchange losses in
respect of the Loan; and

      (k)   "Regie Loans in Arrears" means all loans made by the
Borrower to public utilities and other autonomous entities
established by the Guarantor’s municipal administrations pursuant to
the Guarantor’s Law No. 1-76-583 dated September 30, 1976 (as the
same may be amended from time to time), in respect of which any
payment of principal or interest shall not have been paid when due
and shall, as at June 1, 1993, have remained unpaid for one year or
more.



                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by
a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Development Project under Part A of
the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in a currency and in a
financial institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.



          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Charter and the Statement of Policy, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services,
staff and other resources required for the purpose.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Development Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
                  this Agreement, its accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and records



                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  Fiscal Year audited in accordance with sound
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                  any case, in respect of the financial statements
                  for Fiscal Year 1992, not later than September
                  30, 1993, and in respect of the financial
                  statements for each Fiscal Year thereafter, not
                  later than six months after the end of such year,
                  (A) certified copies of said financial statements
                  for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning the said records, accounts and
                  financial statements and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps, satisfactory
to the Bank, as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of
loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its
operations.

      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times apply policies
and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the allocation of
adequate amounts to provisions for losses on loans made by the
Borrower in accordance with sound accounting and financial
practices.

      Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for each of the following Fiscal Years, the
following annual return, represented as a percentage of the average
current net value of the Borrower’s total assets:

            1994:   0.5%
            1995:   0.8%
            1996:   1.0%
            1997 and each Fiscal Year thereafter: 1.2%.



      (b)   Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year and the
next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
ments of the structure or levels of its interest rates and other
financial charges) in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  the Borrower’s income for the Fiscal Year in
                  question by one half of the sum of the current
                  net value of the Borrower’s total assets at the
                  beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.

           (ii)   The term "income" means total operating revenues
                  less operating expenses.

          (iii)   The term "total operating revenues" means
                  revenues from all sources related to operations,
                  including interest revenues and revenues from
                  other financial charges.

           (iv)   The term "operating expenses" means all expenses
                  related to operations, including interest and
                  other charges on debt, administration, adequate
                  maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
                  (other than income taxes), and provisions for
                  depreciation, amortization and loan losses, each
                  on a basis acceptable to the Bank.

            (v)   The term "current net value of the Borrower’s
                  total assets" means the gross value of the
                  Borrower’s total assets, including cash,
                  securities, outstanding loan balances, fixed
                  assets and intangible assets, less the amount of
                  accumulated depreciation, the amount of accumu-
                  lated amortization and the amount allocated to
                  provide for loan losses, all as valued from time
                  to time in accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.

      Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain, for each Fiscal Year after Fiscal Year
1994, a ratio of total administrative expenses to average net value
of total assets not higher than 0.75%.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year and the
next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section;

            (i)   The ratio of total administrative expenses to
                  average net value of total assets shall be
                  calculated by dividing the Borrower’s total



                  administrative expenses for the Fiscal Year in
                  question by one half of the sum of the current
                  net value of the Borrower’s total assets at the
                  beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.

           (ii)   The term "total administrative expenses" means
                  all expenses related to administration.

          (iii)   The term "current net value of the Borrower’s
                  total assets" means the gross value of the
                  Borrower’s total assets, including cash,
                  securities, outstanding loan balances, fixed
                  assets and intangible assets, less the amount of
                  accumulated depreciation, the amount of accumu-
                  lated amortization and the amount allocated to
                  provide for loan losses, all as valued from time
                  to time in accordance with sound and consistently
                  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.

      Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of debt to equity not higher
than 15 to 1 during each of Fiscal Year 1993, Fiscal Year 1994,
Fiscal Year 1995 and Fiscal Year 1996, and not higher than 12 to 1
during Fiscal Year 1997 and each Fiscal Year thereafter.

      (b)   Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year and the
next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for
the Fiscal Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.

      (d)   For purposes of this Section:

            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.

           (ii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-in capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  liabilities.

          (iii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

                           ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or its ability to perform any of its obligations



under this Agreement.

      (b)   The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Kingdom Loan Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall have failed to maintain its
participation in the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme in
accordance with the requirements thereof or the Guarantor shall have
failed to maintain the Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

      (b)   The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower has appointed the four divisional managers
and the two environmental specialists referred to in sub-paragraphs
2 (a) (i) and 2 (b), respectively, of Part B of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of said
Part B;

      (b)   the municipal administrations of the Guarantor shall
have assumed or guaranteed the Regie Loans in Arrears in their
entirety, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Kingdom Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)



      For the Borrower:

            Fonds d’Equipement Communal
            1 rue Oued Beht
            Angle avenue Omar Ibn Al Khattab
            Agdal Rabat, Morocco

            Cable address:Telex:

                                                36581 - FEC

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco,
as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Harinder Kohli
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                        COMMUNAL INFRASTRUCTURE FUND

                        By /s/ Driss Basri
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Sub-loans                 98,200,000        70% of amounts
                                                paid by the
                                                Borrower to a
                                                Beneficiary

(2) Goods for                    400,000        100% of foreign
    Part B of the                               expenditures,
    Project                                     100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(3) Consultants’                 400,000        100%
    services and
    training for
    Part B of the
    Project



(4) Unallocated                1,000,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========

2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist in (1) improving
the financial and operational efficiency of the Guarantor’s
provincial and municipal administrations and (2) furthering the
development of infrastructure and provision of services in the
Guarantor’s municipalities.

      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Financing of specific development projects to construct,
upgrade, rehabilitate, maintain and/or provide (1) water supply
systems, (2) electrical power networks, (3) sewerage and wastewater
disposal systems, (4) solid waste collection and disposal systems,
(5) urban transport vehicles and facilities, (6) markets,
slaughterhouses and recreational facilities and equipment,
(7) street lighting systems, and (8) roads, bridges, drainage
systems and related infrastructure, of Beneficiaries.

Part B:

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of the Borrower, including the carrying
out of a training program for staff of the Borrower and the
provision of equipment and vehicles required therefor.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                             SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

March 1, 1999                              1,870,000



September 1, 1999                          1,940,000
March 1, 2000                              2,010,000
September 1, 2000                          2,085,000
March 1, 2001                              2,165,000
September 1, 2001                          2,245,000
March 1, 2002                              2,325,000
September 1, 2002                          2,415,000
March 1, 2003                              2,505,000
September 1, 2003                          2,595,000
March 1, 2004                              2,695,000
September 1, 2004                          2,795,000
March 1, 2005                              2,895,000
September 1, 2005                          3,005,000
March 1, 2006                              3,115,000
September 1, 2006                          3,230,000
March 1, 2007                              3,350,000
September 1, 2007                          3,475,000
March 1, 2008                              3,605,000
September 1, 2008                          3,740,000
March 1, 2009                              3,880,000
September 1, 2009                          4,020,000
March 1, 2010                              4,170,000
September 1, 2010                          4,325,000
March 1, 2011                              4,485,000
September 1, 2011                          4,655,000
March 1, 2012                              4,825,000
September 1, 2012                          5,005,000
March 1, 2013                              5,190,000
September 1, 2013                          5,385,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity



                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Local Competitive Bidding

1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Local Shopping

2.    Goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000
or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and with respect to each
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be



furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, single source selection of firms,
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      For purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement the
Implementation Program shall consist of the following.

A.    Part A of the Project

1.    The Borrower shall: (a) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for
Development Projects on the basis of the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in the Annex to this Schedule; (b) exercise its
rights in relation to each Development Project in such manner as to:
(i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project; and (c) coordinate and monitor the overall
execution of Part A of the Project, appraise Development Projects
and supervise the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their
respective Development Projects in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the aggregate amount of all Sub-
loans made by the Borrower for any one Development Project shall not
exceed the lesser of (a) the equivalent of $10,000,000 and (b) the
total estimated cost (excluding the cost of land) of such
Development Project, as such estimated cost shall be calculated in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.

B.    Part B of the Project

1.    Under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall introduce a
new organizational structure comprising, inter alia, five divisions,
each with terms of reference, qualified and experienced staff and
other resources satisfactory to the Bank and with responsibility,
respectively, for: (a) appraisal of projects financed by the
Borrower; (b) oversight of the execution of such projects; (c)
financial management of the Borrower; (d) research; and (e)
administration.



2.   In order to ensure the proper functioning of the organi-
zational structure referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   (i) initially appoint a manager to head each of the
divisions with responsibilities referred to in sub-paragraphs 1 (a),
(b), (c) and (e) of Part B of this Schedule and (ii) thereafter
appoint the remaining managerial staff not later than September 30,
1993; and

      (b)   implement an action plan acceptable to the Bank, for
the recruitment and appointment of at least two qualified and
experienced environmental specialists and an adequate number of
qualified and experienced engineers and financial analysts.

3.    Under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   develop and introduce, not later than April 1, 1994,
management information systems satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than April 1,
1994, for the Bank’s review a proposed training program for its
staff, and thereafter, promptly carry out such training program as
shall have been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.

4.    Procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

                    ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

                Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

      Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule
5 to this Agreement, the principal terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of sub-
paragraph 1 (a) of Part A of said Schedule 5.

A.    Terms.

1.    Each Sub-loan shall: (a) have a maturity of not more than
fifteen (15) years, including a grace period of not more than two
(2) years; and (b) be made on other terms, including those relating
to interest and other charges, which are in accordance with the
Borrower’s applicable policies and procedures pursuant to the
Statement of Policy.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be made on further terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including:

      (a)   that each Beneficiary shall undertake to: (i) carry out
and operate the Development Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in accordance with (A) sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and (B) appropriate safety, health and environ-
mental standards satisfactory to the Bank, maintain adequate
records, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and
other resources required for the purpose; (ii) procure the goods and
services required for the Development Project in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods
and services exclusively in the carrying out of the Development
Project; (iii) enable the Bank and the Borrower to inspect such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Development Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including, without
limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to theacquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods required for the



Development Project to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; and (v) prepare
and furnish to the Borrower, for forwarding to the Bank, if so
requested by the Bank, all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Development
Project; and

      (b)   provisions to ensure the right of the Borrower to
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower providing for the
Sub-loan.

B.    Conditions

1.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Beneficiary which shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower in accordance
with the Statement of Policy and additional guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank, that it: (A) is creditworthy and has a sound financial
structure and (B) has the management, staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of the Development Project.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be made only for a Development Project
which: (a) is determined to be technically feasible, financially
viable and economically justified and involves no involuntary
resettlement of individuals; and (b) is designed in accordance with
appropriate safety, health and environmental standards satisfactory
to the Bank; all as shall have been determined and calculated to the
satisfaction of the Borrower on the basis of an appraisal, including
an environmental impact assessment, carried out in accordance with
the Statement of Policy and further guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank.

3.    No expenditures for goods or services required for a
Development Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:

      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Development Project shall have
been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than one hundred-eighty days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under sub-paragraph 4 (a) of Part B of this Annex in
respect of such Sub-loan; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Development Project shall have
been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than one hundred-eighty days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received the request and information
required under sub-paragraph 4 (b) of Part B of this Annex in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this
Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan (other than the
first two Sub-loans to be made under each of Parts A (1), A (2),
A (3), A (4), A (5), A (6), A (7) and A (8) of the Project) for a
Development Project in an amount which shall not exceed the sum of
$1,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower or the Guarantor entered into
before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been
or are being used for financing goods and services directly and
materially related to such Development Project.

4.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with (i) a description of the Beneficiary and an appraisal of the
Development Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the



proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the Development Project, including a description of the expen-
ditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1996.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3);

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph 3 (b)
of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free limit Sub-
loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible
expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such
withdrawals; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to sub-paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,



                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.



                            SCHEDULE 7

              Modifications of the General Conditions

      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

      (1)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (2)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
      sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to
      read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      (3)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
      the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
      withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of
      such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set
      forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following
      is substituted therefor:

            "or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 4 (c) of
      Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the
      Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have
      received no applications or requests permitted under sub-
      paragraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied
      any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to
      the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
      Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
      withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
      respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving
      of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
      cancelled."