World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3568 JO

                          Loan Agreement

                     (Third Transport Project)

                              between

                    HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated July 16, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3568 JO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 16, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Parts A (1) and A (2) of the Project will be carried out
by the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Part A (3)
of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s Ministry of
Transport and Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Aqaba
Railway Corporation, and the Borrower will make available to said
Ministries and Corporation the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided;

      (C)   to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower has
obtained from the European Investment Bank (EIB), a loan (the EIB
Loan) in the amount of fifteen million European currency units (ECU

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



15,000,000), under an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) entered
into between the Borrower and EIB on November 10, 1992; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "ARC" means the Aqaba Railway Corporation of the
Borrower;

      (b)   "MPWH" means the Ministry of Public Works and Housing of
the Borrower;

      (c)   "MOT" means the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower;

      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ARC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (e)   "Road Rehabilitation Program" means a road pavement
rehabilitation program to restore, through asphalt overlay,
resurfacing or reconstruction, the strength of sections of the
highway network which satisfy the evaluation criteria referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and

      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.



      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after        July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of



            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Part A (1) and A
(2) of the Project through MPWH, and Part A (3) of the Project
through MOT, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, environmental, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project; and (ii) without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause ARC to carry out
Part B of the Project and to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ARC
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out through MPWH and MOT
or cause to be carried out by ARC (as the case may be) the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause MPWH: (i) to calculate
the economic rate of return for each highway section proposed for
the Road Rehabilitation Program under Part A (2) of the Project; and
(ii) to prepare the bidding documents for the rehabilitation work of
such section only when the Bank agrees that such return is expected
to be not less than 15%.

      Section 3.04.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisitions, respectively) in respect of Part B of the
Project shall be carried out by ARC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MPWH and MOT to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices their operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:



            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
hereof, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ARC will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Law No. 22 of the year 1972 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of ARC to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ARC or for the suspension of its operations.



      (e)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any of the EIB Loan shall have
                         been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                         the EIB Loan Agreement, or

                   (B)   the EIB Loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARC and is legally binding upon ARC in accordance with
its terms;

      (b)   that consultants for the supervision of construction
under Part A(1) of the Project have been employed and letters of
invitation have been issued to consultants for the policy studies to
be carried out under Part A(3) of the Project, all in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;

      (c)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the EIB Loan Agreement, or the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall
have been fulfilled; and

      (d)   that the Borrower has established a Coordinating
Committee, with composition, organization and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to supervise the carrying out, and to
evaluate the results, of the studies included in the Project.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been



duly authorized or ratified by ARC, and is legally binding upon ARC
in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   MINISTRY OF PLANNING            21319
                   Amman

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                       Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                         By /s/ Fayez Al-Tarawneh
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan



1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)  (a) Civil Works          20,200,000        70%
         under Part A (1)
         of the Project

     (b) Civil Works          10,000,000        70%
         under Part A (2)
         of the Project

(2)  (a) Technical               500,000        100%
         Assistance
         under Part A (3)
         of the Project

     (b) Supervision of        2,000,000        100%
         construction
         under Part A (1)
         and (2) of the
         Project

     (c) Technical Assis-        300,000        100%
         tance under
         Part B of the
         Project

(3)  Unallocated               2,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                35,000,000
                              ==========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000 may be made in respect of expenditures incurred prior to
that date but after February 1, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to reduce long-term
transport costs by: (i) upgrading the Desert Highway linking Amman
and the port of Aqaba; (ii) rehabilitating key road sections,
improving road maintenance and enforcing axle load limits; and (iii)
strengthening the technical, financial and managerial capabilities
of the Borrower’s institutions responsible for the transport sector.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Highways

1.    Reconstruction and improvement of approximately 71 km of the
Desert Highway between Wadi Yutum and Ras El Naqab, including
upgrading of an existing detour on the escarpment section at Ras El
Naqab.

2.    Implementation of the Road Rehabilitation Program which shall



include highway sections that satisfy the evaluation criteria
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.

3.    Design of a program to improve capacities and capabilities of
institutions in the highway sector to address policy issues related
to cost recovery and the rapid deterioration of the road system,
through:

      (a)   carrying out a road transport policy issues study to
assist the Borrower in identifying alternative cost recovery
strategies for financing the road sector, including an assessment of
options for a road transport regulatory regime that optimizes
revenues and economic benefits, including the administration of
licensing and import controls, mechanisms for setting tariffs,
analysis of optimum penalties for overloading and the impact of
deregulation of the trucking industry;

      (b)   carrying out an institutional study to assist the
Borrower in evaluating alternative institutional frameworks for the
planning, design and implementation of road construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance; and

      (c)   carrying out an implementation study to prepare detailed
plans and programs for road transport regulation and cost recovery,
including design of a detailed organizational structure and training
of staff for institution(s) selected to implement the Borrower’s
road transport policy.

Part B:     Railway

1.    Carrying out a policy study to assist the Borrower to design
an appropriate corporate structure and supportive institutional
framework for ARC, consistent with fully commercial objectives.

2.    Provision of operational and management support to assist ARC
to: (a) institute improved maintenance systems and practices for its
locomotive fleet; (b) increase throughput through better equipment
utilization and improved customer service; (c) enhance financial
control systems and costing procedures; (d) improve information
management systems to enhance managerial control and decision-
making; and (e) prepare a long-term corporate and market development
plan.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1998                          655,000
May 1, 1999                               680,000
November 1, 1999                          705,000
May 1, 2000                               730,000
November 1, 2000                          755,000
May 1, 2001                               785,000
November 1, 2001                          815,000
May 1, 2002                               845,000
November 1, 2002                          875,000
May 1, 2003                               910,000
November 1, 2003                          940,000
May 1, 2004                               975,000
November 1, 2004                        1,015,000
May 1, 2005                             1,050,000
November 1, 2005                        1,090,000
May 1, 2006                             1,130,000
November 1, 2006                        1,175,000
May 1, 2007                             1,215,000



November 1, 2007                        1,260,000
May 1, 2008                             1,310,000
November 1, 2008                        1,355,000
May 1, 2009                             1,410,000
November 1, 2009                        1,460,000
May 1, 2010                             1,515,000
November 1, 2010                        1,570,000
May 1, 2011                             1,630,000
November 1, 2011                        1,690,000
May 1, 2012                             1,750,000
November 1, 2012                        1,815,000
May 1, 2013                             1,890,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successufl bidder’s bid price will



be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
bid evaluation.

2.    Bidders for the works included in Part A (1) of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.

Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures

      Contracts for works to be carried out under Part A (2) of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000,000, may
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    For review by the Bank of prequalification decisions, the
procedures described in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall be followed.

2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in supervising construction
and in carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the



employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall cause ARC to provide the Bank, for its
approval, the short list of consultants to carry out Part B of the
Project. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1994, review with the Bank
and ARC the findings and recommendations of the studies to be
carried out under Part B of the Project concerning ARC’s institu-
tional and financial structure and the corporate development plan
proposed to be carried out on the basis of such recommendations.
Thereafter, on the basis of such recommendations and exchange of
views, the Borrower and ARC shall carry out a corporate development
plan in accordance with a schedule agreed to by ARC, the Borrower
and the Bank.

2.    (a)   The Borrower shall ensure that the amounts in excess of
net and gross vehicle loads authorized in Regulations No. 36 of 1983
shall be reduced as follows:

            (i)   by October 31, 1993 - by 50 percent;

           (ii)   by June 30, 1994 - at a rate of 75 percent; and

          (iii)   by February 28, 1995 - as specified by
                  Regulations No. 36 of 1983.

      (b)   Commencing in July, 1993, the Borrower shall cause MPWH
to provide the Bank with the results of regular axle load surveys to
monitor enforcement.

3.    (a)   In order to ensure that any items of archaeological or
cultural significance are not damaged by the Project, and that
cultural heritage is preserved, the Borrower shall ensure that:

            (i)   the five sites identified during the
                  archaeological survey are excavated prior to
                  commencement of road works;

           (ii)   a suitably qualified representative from the
                  Department of Antiquities is present during major
                  excavation and earthworks; and

          (iii)   any items of archaeological or cultural
                  significance discovered during construction are
                  preserved and protected, in consultation with the
                  Department of Antiquities.

      (b)   The Borrower shall allocate sufficient funds in its
budget and shall include appropriate provisional items in the road
construction contracts in order to meet the requirements for
archaeological monitoring, excavation and preservation listed in
sub-parabraph (a) above.

4.    Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall cause MPWH to provide to the Bank the proposed Road
Rehabilitation Program for the next following fiscal year. Promptly
thereafter, MPWH and the Bank shall exchange views thereon, and the
Borrower shall cause MPWH to implement the annual Road
Rehabilitation Program agreed to between MPWH and the Bank.

5.    (a)   The Borrower shall ensure the allocation of resources
adequate for the proper maintenance of the Borrower’s road network.

      (b)   The Borrower shall by June 30, 1994, review with the
Bank the findings and recommendations of the studies of policy and



institutional issues in the road transport sector to be carried out
under Part A (3) of the Project and the measures proposed by the
Borrower to be taken on the basis of such recommendations.
Thereafter, on the basis of such recommendations and exchange of
views, the Borrower shall carry out a program to achieve cost
recovery in the road transport sector in accordance with a schedule
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.

6.    (a)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07
of the General Conditions, commencing three months after the
effective date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause MPWH to
prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports, in form
and substance agreed to between the Bank and the Borrower;

      (b)   the Borrower, MPWH, MOT, ARC and the Bank shall, not
later than three years after the effective date of this Agreement,
hold a mid-term exchange of views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project; and

      (c)   prior to such mid-term exchange of views, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments,
a report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is



                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General



Conditions.