World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3601 TUN

                          Loan Agreement

               (Second Forestry Development Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 22, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3601 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1993, between the REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating under the Borrower’s
Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as amended from time to
time;

      (b)   "DGF" means the Directorate General of Forests
(Direction Generale des Forets) established and operating under the
Borrower’s Decree No. 87-779 dated May 21, 1987, as amended by the
Borrower’s Decree No. 90-670 dated April 25, 1990;

      (c)   "DREF" means the Directorate of Forest Exploitation
(Regie d’Exploitation Forestiere) established under Article 24 of
the Borrower’s Budget Law, Law No. 72-87 dated December 31, 1972,
and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 85-1249 dated October
7, 1985;

      (d)   "CRDA" a Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Regional au Developpement Agricole) established and
operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 89-44 dated March 8, 1989 and
the related implementation decrees; and "CRDAs" means more than one
CRDA or the CRDAs collectively;

      (e)   "AF" means a provincial forestry service (arrondissement
des forets) operating within a CRDA; and "AFs" means more than one
AF or the AFs collectively;

      (f)   "Code" means the Borrower’s Forestry Code (Code
Forestier) promulgated by the Borrower’s Law No. 88-20 dated April
13, 1988, as amended from time to time;

      (g)   "AFIC" means a Forestry Association of Collective
Interest (Association Forestiere d’Interet Collectif) to be
established pursuant to Articles 43 and 44 of the Code; and AFICs
means more than one AFIC or the AFICs collectively;

      (h)   "NFE" means the National Forest Estate (Domaine
Forestier de l’Etat) as such is defined in Article 12 of the Code;

      (i)   "forest unit" means a territorial unit (triage) into
which a AF is divided for purposes of forest management and
development;

      (j)   "CFPR" means the Professional Forestry Training Center
of Remel (Centre de Formation Professionnelle Forestiere de Remel)
created under the Borrower’s Budget Law, Law No. 76-115 dated
December 31, 1976, and operating within the Borrower’s Agricultural
Extension and Training Agency (Agence de la Vulgarisation et de la
Formation Agricoles);

      (k)  "CRIP" means the Center of Pedagogic Resources and
Engineering (Centre de Recherche et d’Ingenierie Agricole) within
the Borrower’s Ministry of Professional Training and Employment;

      (l)   "Forestry Development Project" means the Forestry
Development Project financed under the Bank’s Loan No. 2870 TUN,
dated September 28, 1987;



      (m)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit (Bureau du
Gestion du Projet) established under the Forestry Development
Project and operating within the DGF;

      (n)   "FCC" means the Forestry Coordination Committee (Comite
de Coordination Forestiere) established and operating under the
Forestry Development Project;

      (o)   "NGO" means a non-governmental organization
(organisation non-gouvernamentale) in the Borrower’s territory which
is concerned with rural and social development activities; and NGOs
means more than one NGO or the NGOs collectively;

      (p)   "INRF" means the National Institute of Forestry Research
(Institut National de Recherche Forestiere) established under the
Borrower’s Law No. 66-79 dated December 29, 1966, and operating
under the Borrower’s Decree No. 79-766 dated August 28, 1979;

      (q)   "Force Account" means the procurement method of
construction by the use of the Borrower’s own personnel and
equipment;

      (r) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (s)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-nine million dollars ($69,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate



applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering,
environmental, financial, forestry, and land conservation practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.



      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

(b)The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine (9) months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.



      Section 4.02. Beginning with Fiscal Year 1994, before the end
of each Fiscal Year the Borrower shall, through regional revolving
funds, make available out of its own resources to the CRDAs
responsible for carrying out Project activities through Force
Account, the funds necessary to cover at least the anticipated
annual Project expenditures for the following Fiscal Year necessary
to finance personnel and equipment costs of work to be executed by
Force Account.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)  The Borrower shall have submitted to its Chamber of
Deputies proposed legislation necessary towards satisfaction of the
provisions of paragraph C.4 of Schedule 5 hereto;

      (b)   The Borrower: (i) shall have set up, or shall have
caused to be set up within the PMU, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank: (A) the Accounting and Financial Management Unit; (B)
the Concept, Programming and Promotion Unit; (C) the Management and
Exploitation Unit; (D) the Reforestation and Rangeland Unit; and (E)
the Environment Unit; and (ii) shall have appointed, or shall have
caused to be appointed, seven (7) additional permanent staff to said
PMU Units; and

      (c)   The Borrower shall have identified, or shall have caused
to be identified, the specific areas on which to implement the pilot
operations of integrated rural development to be carried out under
Part G of the Project.

      Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                       ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of International Cooperation
              and Foreign Investment
            149, Avenue de la Liberte
            1002 Tunis-Belvedere
            Republic of Tunisia

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MCIIE                     18060

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America



            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil Works,               3,200,000      50%
      buildings, roads
      and firebreaks

(2)   Forestry Works            36,200,000      100%
      for Part B (1)
      of the Project

(3)   Forestry Works            13,500,000      100% of foreign
      for the Project                           expenditures
      other than                                and 20% of local
      Part B (1) thereof                        expenditures

(4)   Equipment, Vehicles        4,000,000      100% of foreign
      and materials                             expenditures
                                                and 100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

                           Amount of the



                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(5)  Consultants’              4,800,000        100%
     Services and
     Training

(6)  Pilot Operations          7,300,000        100%
     under Part G
     of the Project
                                __________

      TOTAL                     69,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
works, goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
achieving a sustainable integrated development, management, and
utilization of its forest resources through the active participation
of the forestry population.  To this end, the Project aims to: (i)
reduce soil erosion and increase water retention to protect
agricultural lands; (ii) harmonize and improve social conditions of
the disadvantaged forestry sector population; (iii) improve quality
and increase quantity of sustained wood production; (iv) develop
forest rangelands; and (v) enhance, preserve and expand the
Borrower’s nature and wildlife heritage.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Forest Management

      Carrying out of a program of gradual execution of forestry
management programs, consisting of:

1.    Preparation of forest management plans covering a total area
of about 85,000 ha, comprising, inter alia, the AFs of Ariana, Beja,
Bizerte, Jendouba, Nabeul and Zaghouan.

2.    Development of forestry infrastructure, including construction
and rehabilitation, respectively, of about 100 km and 700 km of
forestry roads, opening of about 240 km of firebreaks, construction
and rehabilitation, respectively, of about 8 and 30 foresters
houses, construction of about 25 observation towers, and provision
of communication equipment, water tanks, and fire breaks, all as
required for the activities included in this Part A (2).

3.    Undertaking of sylvicultural works, comprising: (i) thinning
of about 2,300 ha of cork oak coppices in the AFs, inter alia, of
Ain Draham and Jendouba, about 20,600 ha of young stands of natural
aleppo pine in the AFs, inter alia, of Le Kef, Kasserine, Kairouan,
Zaghouan, and Siliana, about 7,900 ha of eucalyptus coppices in the
AFs, inter alia, of Ariana, Ben-Arous, Beja, Ain-Draham, Nabeul, and



Bizerte, and about 21,200 ha of pine plantations in the AFs, inter
alia, of Ariana, Ben-Arous, Beja, Ain Draham, Nabeul, Bizerte, and
Siliana; and (ii) regeneration of about 5,000 ha of cork oak forest
in the AFs, inter alia, of Beja, Ain Draham, Bizerte, and Jendouba,
and about 14,200 ha of natural aleppo pine forest in the AFs, inter
alia, of Beja, Le Kef, Kasserine, Siliana, and Zaghouan.

Part B:     Plantations

      Carrying out of plantation activities consisting of:

1.    Mechanized soil preparation for plantation of about 17,800 ha,
inter alia, of pine, eucalyptus and acacia over three bio-climatic
zones within the NFE.

2.    Manual plantation of about 7,600 ha of pine, eucalyptus and
acacia over three bio-climatic zones within the NFE.

3.    Establishment of about 4,100 ha of linear plantations along
stream banks in the AFs, inter alia, of Beja, Kairouan, Jendouba,
Ain Draham, and Nabeul.

4.    Establishment, on a pilot and demonstration basis, of about:
(i) 500 ha of poplar plantations in private agricultural land so as
to encourage private sector participation in forest plantation and
exploitation; and (ii) 500 ha of windbreaks in irrigated perimeters
in the AFs, inter alia, of Ariana and Nabeul.

5.    Improvement of about 40 existing nurseries and introduction,
on a pilot basis, of new technology in order to test the production
of plants in two nurseries, including provision and installation of
equipment, containers, irrigation systems, shades, pumps, and
tractors, as required therefor.

Part C:     Forest Pasture and Range Improvement

      Development of a program to improve about 14,000 ha of
rangeland, including about: (i) 550 ha of permanent prairies in the
humid and sub-humid zones of the AFs, inter alia, of Beja, Ain
Draham, Le Kef, Zaghouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; (ii) 1,000 ha of
permanent prairies in the semi-arid zone of the AFs, inter alia, of
Beja, Le Kef, Kasserine, Kairouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; (iii) 350
ha of improved pastures in the humid and semi-humid zones of the
AFs, inter alia, of Jendouba and Siliana; (iv) 2,000 ha of improved
pastures in the semi-arid zones of the AFs, inter alia, of Jendouba,
Le Kef, and Siliana; (v) 1,550 ha of cactus plantations in the semi-
arid zones of the AFs, inter alia, of Le Kef, Siliana, and
Kasserine; (vi) 1,250 ha of acacia plantations in the humid and
semi-humid zones of the AFs, inter alia, of Ben Arous, Beja,
Jendouba, Kasserine, Nabeul, Zaghouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; (vii)
5,900 ha of acacia plantations in the semi-arid zones of the AFs,
inter alia, of Ariana, Beja, Jendouba, Le Kef, Kasserine, Kairouan,
Nabeul, Zaghouan, Bizerte, and Siliana; and (viii) 1,400 ha of
rehabilitation of pastures in the semi-arid zones, inter alia, of
the AF of Le Kef; and provision of training and technical
assistance.

Part D:     Wood Exploitation and Value Enhancement

      Carrying out of a program to support the improvement of wood
exploitation, consisting of:

1.    Preparation of studies on fuel, sawn, industrial wood and
secondary products of the forests so as to determine value
enhancement of forest products and propose related plan of actions.

2.    Provision of expanded training in wood exploitation
techniques, including training in the CFPR of about 750 private
sector forest workers, and provision of technical assistance and
demonstration equipment as required therefor.

3.    Provision by the CRIP of training in wood processing with a



focus on secondary industries, including the rehabilitation of a
small sawing plant within CFPR and provision of technical assistance
as required therefor.

Part E:     National Parks and Reserves

      Carrying out of a program to preserve national parks and
reserves and protect the wildlife through improved management and
strengthened equipment, and, to this end, provision of: (i)
training, including courses abroad, study tours, and technical
assistance; and (ii) vehicles and equipment to, inter alia, the
National Parks of Bou-Hedma, Chambi, El Feidja, and Sidi Toui.

Part F:     Forestry Research

      Carrying out of a comprehensive program of applied research by
the INRF on: (i) improved utilization of Tunisian wood; (ii)
plantation sites and the ecological demands of species; (iii) growth
and yield tables; (iv) thinning systems for pine plantations; (v)
artificial regeneration of cork oak; (vi) intensified management of
cork oak; (vii) intensified sylvo-pastoral production; (viii) agro-
forestry; (ix) forest protection; (x) improvement of nursery
technologies; and (xi) environment impact of forest development; and
provision of materials, vehicles, equipment, consultants’ services
and training as required to carry out such program.

Part G:     Institutional Development and Pilot Operations

      Carrying out of a program to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the DGF and the AFs so as to support them in the
implementation of the Project, and implementation of 10 pilot
operations of integrated rural development, and provision of 19
additional technical staff, training of about 100 agents involved in
Project implementation, technical assistance, vehicles and
equipment.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning February 1, 1999           2,875,000
      through August 1, 2010