World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3578 MAS

                          Loan Agreement

              (Education Sector Development Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 16, 1993
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3578 MAS

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 18,
1993, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s education sector (hereinafter called the Program), and
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;

      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "ESMP" means the Borrower’s Education Sector
 Master
Plan, reflected in the Program;

      (b)   "MOES" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and
Science;

      (c)   "MPCU" means the Borrower’s Master Plan Coordination
Unit within MOES;

      (d)   "NCCRD" means the Borrower’s National Center for
Curriculum Research and Development;

      (e)   "PSSA" means the Private Secondary Schools Authority;

      (f)   "PTA" means a Parent Teacher Association;

      (g)   "PAP" means the Policy Action Plan prepared by the
Borrower, consisting of policy measures designed to guide the
implementation of the ESMP;

      (h)   "TEC" means the Borrower’s Tertiary Education
Commission;

      (i)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within MOES
established under Loans 1033-MAS and 1543-MAS;

      (j)   "MES" means the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate;

      (k)   "CPE" means the Certificate of Primary Education;

      (l)   "CCE" means Continuous Comprehension Evaluation;

      (m)   "EMIS" means the Education Management Information System
within MOES; and

      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.



      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December, 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates



            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month
 period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15, and November 15, in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Program, and the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MOES with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative and education practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that projects
contained in the Education Sector Investment Program are included in
the Borrower’s Public Sector Investment Program and that any new
project shall be consistent with the objectives of ESMP.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) follow the principles,
policy actions and programs in the plan for the rationalization of
tertiary education referred to Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and (b) by the time of the mid-term review referred to in
paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, design a career
motivation package for practicing teachers.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent



                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                            ARTICLE VI

                            Termination

      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:



            Ministry of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis, Mauritius

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  MINFIN                    4249 EXTERN IW
                  Port Louis

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                        By /s/ Chitmansing Jesseramsing
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ F. Aguirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                      Amount of the
                     Loan Allocated                 % of
                      (Expressed in             Expenditures
 Category          Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed

(1)  Civil works           4,000,000            35% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(2)  Equipment and                              70% of foreign
     furniture:                                 expenditures



     (a) For Part A.4      3,400,000
         of the Project

     (b) For the other     6,400,000
         Parts of the
         Project

(3)  Books, printed         900,000             70% of foreign
     items and soft-                            expenditures
     ware

(4)   Consultants’        1,300,000             40% of local
      services                                  expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                consultants
                                                domiciled within
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of other
                                                consultants

                     Amount of the
                     Loan Allocated                 % of
                      (Expressed in             Expenditures
 Category          Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed

(5)  Training and          1,000,000            100% of foreign
     studies                                    expenditures and
                                                40% of local
                                                expenditures

(6)  Unallocated           3,000,000
                          __________

     TOTAL                20,000,000
                          ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
with respect to expenditures under Category (2)(a) until the
Borrower has furnished to the Bank the consolidated tertiary
education development plan referred to in Part C.1 (b) of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The main objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
to implement the policy reforms and associated investment programs
of the Education Sector Master Plan, and strengthen the capacity of
MOES to develop and implement sustainable sector investment
programs. In this context, the Project shall: (i) increase access to
and promote equity of educational opportunity at all levels;
(ii) improve the quality and efficiency of education; and



(iii) strengthen sector management and institutional development.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Increasing Access and Promoting Equity

1.    Primary Schools

      (a)   Rehabilitation of classrooms and other facilities at
about 25 primary schools.

      (b)   Construction of about 13 new primary schools in under-
served locations.

2.    State Secondary Schools

      (a)   Renovation and/or extension of facilities at about 21
state secondary schools.

      (b)   Construction of five new state secondary schools
accommodating about 5,000 students in regions now deprived of a
secondary school.

3.    Private-Sector Secondary Schools

      Acquisition of equipment, furniture and supplies for new
facilities of private secondary schools.

4.    Higher Education

      Expansion of the University of Mauritius, based on an academic
development plan, through the upgrading of professional
qualifications of faculty and staff, and acquisition of appropriate
laboratory equipments, books, and instructional materials.

Part B:     Improving the Quality of Education

1.    Student Assessment, Testing and Examination Reform

      (a)   Strengthening the capacity of MES to design and
implement the proposed reform of the student assessment and
examinations systems, and expand its research programs in the area
of examinations and testing, through the acquisition of necessary
equipment, development of testing programs and materials, and
provision of staff training.

      (b)   Introduction sequentially, beginning with Form I, of the
Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation program.

      (c)   Redesigning of the CPE to strengthen its assessment
functions and gradually improve its student orientation role.

      (d)   Introduction of a diagnostic assessment in Standard 3.

      (e)   Introduction of an orientation assessment for Form III.

      (f)   Construction of data processing and storage facilities,
acquisition of examination and test-related equipment and computers.

      (g)   Conducting in-country workshops for primary and junior
secondary teachers on the use of CCE, CPE and diagnostic
assessments.

2.    Teacher Upgrading

      (a)   Revision and simplication of existing structure of
certificate and diploma courses offered by the Mauritius Institute
of Education.

      (b)   Development of teacher upgrading programs and associated



instructional materials.

      (c)   Provision of local staff training.

3.    Endowments for Libraries and Teaching Aids

      (a)   Carrying out a survey to provide an inventory of needs
with respect to libraries, instructional materials, and additional
space requirements.

      (b)   Upgrading book collections, increasing stock of
reference books, and acquisition of book-shelves and storage
equipment.

      (c)   Acquisition of instructional equipment, including
videocassette recorders, televisions, radios, calculators and
computers.

      (d)   Training of teachers on how to better use the
abovementioned technology.

Part C:     Strengthening Sector Management and Institutional
             Development

1.    Tertiary Education

      (a)   Strengthening of TEC’s capacity to (i) coordinate annual
activity programs and long term development plans for the four
higher education institutions, (ii) plan academic programs with a
uniform modular curriculum and credit system, (iii) sustain faculty
and staff development, and (iv) develop libraries and information
resources.

      (b)   Preparation of a consolidated tertiary education
development plan, covering all four higher education institutions
(University of Mauritius, Mauritius Institute of Education,
Mauritius College of the Air and Mahatma Gandhi Institute).

      (c)   Preparation of proposals for introduction of an academic
credit system.

      (d)   Development of a database on academic research.

      (e)   Carrying out a review of distance education.

      (f)   Establishment of staff development, library and
laboratory funds.

2.    MOES

      (a)   Establishment of an Education Management Information
System, fully integrated within the operating units of MOES.

      (b)   Improvement of operational linkages with the planning,
programming, and budgeting procedures of the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development, and the Ministry of Finance.

      (c)   Strengthening MOES’ capacities for finance and budgeting
and personnel management, through increased computerization,
improved data processing and provision of professional management
training for MOES staff.

      (d)   Carrying out research and studies to improve program
development, maximize learning achievements, equalize learning
opportunities, and improve learning quality.

3.    National Schools Inspectorate

      (a)   Development of an administrative framework, with clear
operational procedures, within which the National Inspectorate will
function.



      (b)   Upgrading of the professional competence of the
inspectors through training.

      (c)   Improvement in the logistical base from which the
inspectors operate.

4.    Regional Education Centers

      (a)   Establishment of a system of educational support
services for teachers and students at the regional level.

      (b)   Upgrading of Regional Education Centers in all
regions.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      On each May 15 and November 15

          beginning November 15, 1998
          through November 15, 2008             835,000

      and on May 15, 2010                       795,000