World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3618 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

   (Land Development Project for Low-Income Families - Kingdom)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 14, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3618 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1993, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by National
Equipment and Construction Company (Societe Nationale d’Equipement
et de Construction, or SNEC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SNEC a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and SNEC;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (b)   "Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "SNEC" means the National Equipment and Construction
Company (Societe Nationale d’Equipement et de Construction), a
limited liability stock company (societe anonyme) established and
operating pursuant to the SNEC Charter;

      (d)   "SNEC Charter" means the Charter (Statuts) establishing
SNEC, signed on July 28, 1987 by the Minister of Housing of the
Borrower;

      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and SNEC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SNEC pursuant to sub-paragraph
(1) (a) of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the
loan provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

      (g)   "Housing Sector Development Program" means the program
of policies, objectives and actions designed to restructure and
further the efficient development of the housing sector, set forth
in a letter dated May 6, 1993 from the Borrower to the Bank;

      (h)   "Dirham" and "DH" mean the currency of the Borrower;

      (i)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project for
the development of serviced residential lots to be carried out by
SNEC under Part A (1) of the Project, which satisfies the
requirements referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement;

      (j)   "Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee" means the
inter-ministerial committee to be established pursuant to paragraph
1 of Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (k)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing
on January 1 and ending on December 31.

                            ARTICLE II



                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-six million dollars ($66,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain a special deposit account in a currency
and a financial institution, both acceptable to the Bank, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:



                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, economic and financial practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Housing
Sector Development Program with due diligence and efficiency;

      (b)   maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Housing
Sector Development Program;

      (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank:

            (i)    not later than September 30 of each year, a
                   report, in form and substance satisfactory to
                   the Bank, on the conclusions and recommendations
                   indicated by the monitoring and evaluation
                   activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b)
                   of this Section in respect of the preceding
                   calendar year, together with any revisions



                   proposed to be introduced into the Housing
                   Sector Development Program on the basis of said
                   report; and

           (ii)    not later than December 31, 1996, or such later
                   date as the Bank shall agree, a report, in form
                   and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the
                   overall progress achieved in the carrying out of
                   the Housing Sector Development Program, based on
                   the conclusions and recommendations indicated by
                   the monitoring and evaluation activities
                   performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
                   Section;

      (d)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on each report prepared pursuant to
paragraph (c) of this Section; and

      (e)   thereafter, promptly introduce such revisions into the
Housing Sector Development Program as shall have been agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.

      Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
carry out a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to increase its
equity holdings in SNEC by increasing SNEC’s paid-in capital
annually by at least four million Dirhams (DH 4,000,000) not later
than June 30 in each of the Borrower’s Fiscal Years 1994 through
1998, so that not later than June 30, 1998 the total paid-in capital
of SNEC shall be at least equal to twenty million one hundred
thousand Dirhams (DH 20,100,000).

      Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account



                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   SNEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SNEC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   the SNEC Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of SNEC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SNEC or for the suspension of its operations.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

      (b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SNEC.

      (b)   The Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee has been
established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part
B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   SNEC has appointed the staff referred to in paragraph 1
of Part B of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraph.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional



matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SNEC, and is legally binding upon SNEC in accordance
with its terms.

      (b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and SNEC and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and SNEC in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministcre des Finances
            Rabat
            Kingdom of Morocco

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                                             36936
                                             36919

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of
the day and year first above written.

                         KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                         By /s/ Mohamed Berrada
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                         By /s/ Harinder Kohli
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil Works              58,500,000         65%
    under Part A of
    the Project

(2) Goods, consultants’         500,000         100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures,
    training under                              100% of local
    Part A of the                               expenditures
    Project                                     (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                                                in respect of
                                                goods; and 100%
                                                in respect of
                                                consultants’
                                                services and
                                                training

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’               2,000,000        100%
    services under
    Part B of the
    Project

(4) Unallocated                5,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                66,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after December 1, 1992.



                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are (1) to assist in the imple-
mentation of the Borrower’s strategy to promote the development of
residential lots for low-income families, and (2) to improve the
efficiency of the housing sector, all in accordance with the Housing
Sector Development Program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     SNEC

(1)   The carrying out of specific development projects to develop
serviced residential lots, consisting of the preparation of
residential and commercial plots, the construction of roads,
footpaths and public utility networks and facilities and the
connection of said networks and facilities to basic infrastructure.

(2)   The carrying out of a program to strengthen the operations and
management of SNEC, including the development and introduction of
suitable data processing and financial management systems and the
provision of computer hardware and software and training required
therefor.

Part B:     Sector Development

      The development and carrying out of a program to further
develop the housing sector, consisting of:

(1)   the carrying out of a study of (a) housing finance
institutions and systems, including housing subsidies, and (b)
property taxation systems, and, on the basis thereof, the
development and implementation of a suitable strategy and program to
improve resource mobilization for the housing sector and the
efficiency of the housing finance sector;

(2)   the carrying out of a study (a) of land registration and
transfer systems, and of land development, land use and housing
construction regulations, and (b) of the land and housing
development markets, and, on the basis thereof, the development and
implementation of a strategy and program to facilitate the
development of private developers of land and housing and to improve
the delivery of land to be utilized for residential purposes; and

(3)   the carrying out of a study of the socio-economic impact of
the Borrower’s programs for resettlement of residents of shanty-
towns, including surveys of selected resettlement activities, and,
on the basis thereof, the further development and application of
policies and practices designed to ensure that said resettlement
programs are designed and implemented in such a manner as will
improve the living standards of the persons displaced by such
programs.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

February 15, 1999                          1,235,000



August 15, 1999                            1,280,000
February 15, 2000                          1,325,000
August 15, 2000                            1,375,000
February 15, 2001                          1,430,000
August 15, 2001                            1,480,000
February 15, 2002                          1,535,000
August 15, 2002                            1,595,000
February 15, 2003                          1,650,000
August 15, 2003                            1,715,000
February 15, 2004                          1,775,000
August 15, 2004                            1,845,000
February 15, 2005                          1,910,000
August 15, 2005                            1,985,000
February 15, 2006                          2,055,000
August 15, 2006                            2,135,000
February 15, 2007                          2,210,000
August 15, 2007                            2,295,000
February 15, 2008                          2,380,000
August 15, 2008                            2,470,000
February 15, 2009                          2,560,000
August 15, 2009                            2,655,000
February 15, 2010                          2,755,000
August 15, 2010                            2,855,000
February 15, 2011                          2,960,000
August 15, 2011                            3,070,000
February 15, 2012                          3,185,000
August 15, 2012                            3,305,000
February 15, 2013                          3,425,000
August 15, 2013                            3,550,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity



                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2);

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the



General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to Part A of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Part A of the Project

1.    For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Categories (1) and (2) to SNEC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SNEC, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
which shall include the terms set forth or referred to in the Annex
to this Schedule 5;

      (b)   (i) cause SNEC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SNEC
therein set forth, (ii) take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other



resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SNEC to perform such
obligations, and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and

      (c)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

2.    The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project
shall be carried out by SNEC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

B.   Part B of the Project

1.    In order to ensure the proper carrying out of Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter at all times
maintain an inter-ministerial committee, with membership and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for the
overall coordination, supervision and monitoring of the carrying out
of Part B of the Project and of the Housing Sector Development
Program.

2.    Under Part B (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) carry
out an initial study of the process of development of the housing
sector and ensure that said study shall be completed and a copy
thereof, together with an action plan for the implementation of the
recommendations based thereon, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, shall be furnished to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1993; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said study and
action plan; (iii) thereafter, take all action required on its part
to carry out such action plan as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank; and (iv) in order to assist the Borrower in
the carrying out of said study, continue to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    (a)   Under Part B (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    carry out an initial survey of the socio-
                   economic impact of the plan for the resettlement
                   of shanty-town residents to be implemented in
                   respect of the first Sub-project approved by the
                   Bank under Part A of the Project;

           (ii)    furnish said survey to the Bank promptly upon
                   its conclusion, together with the
                   recommendations based thereon, for the Bank’s
                   review and comments; and

           (iii)   thereafter, introduce such revisions to its
                   resettlement policies and practices for the
                   resettlement of residents of shanty-towns as
                   the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed are
                   required to ensure that the Borrower’s programs
                   for the resettlement of said residents are
                   designed and implemented in such a manner as
                   will improve the living standards of said
                   residents.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of sub-paragraph
3 (a) of this Part, for each Sub-project which involves the
development of sites to be allocated to residents of shanty-towns,
the Borrower shall:

            (i)    (A) develop a resettlement plan, consistent with



                   the Housing Sector Development Program and in
                   accordance with additional policies and
                   guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, designed to
                   improve the living standards of said residents
                   and (B) furnish said plan, promptly upon its
                   preparation, to the Bank for the Bank’s
                   approval; and

           (ii)    ensure that said residents are resettled in
                   accordance with such resettlement plan as shall
                   have been approved by the Bank.

                       ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5

                      Principal Terms of the
                     Subsidiary Loan Agreement

      The principal terms set forth in this Schedule shall apply for
the purposes of paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the
equivalent in Dirhams (determined as of the date or respective dates
of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of goods and services for Part A of
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (1) and (2).

2.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
over a period not exceeding 10 years, inclusive of a grace period
not exceeding 5 years.

3.    Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a
rate not less than 12.5%.

                         SCHEDULE 6

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

Local Competitive Bidding

1.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less



per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Local Shopping

2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded in
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part A hereof and each
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.