World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3565 TU

                          Loan Agreement

 (Bursa Water and Sanitation Project - Water Supply and Sewerage)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

             BURSA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY

                       Dated March 25, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3565 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BURSA WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS (A) Republic of Turkey (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

                   "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
            Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Bursa Water Supply and Sewerage Administration Act"
means Law No. 3305 of June 5, 1986, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance provided by the Bank to the Guarantor, pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated April 5, 1991 and April 18, 1991
between the Guarantor and the Bank and, thereafter, made available
by the Guarantor to the Borrower;

      (c)   "Action Plan" means the action plan referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;

      (d)   "fiscal year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning
January 1 and ending December 31; and

      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred seventeen million dollars ($117,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency acceptable to the
Bank a special deposit account in the Central Bank of the Guarantor
or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to



itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period



            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                          ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, public utility and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   carry out the Action Plan, including a timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of strengthening the
Borrower’s managerial, operational and financial performance;

      (b)   not later than September 30 of each year, review with
the Bank:

            (i)    the progress achieved in carrying out said
                   Action Plan; and

            (ii)   the modifications proposed by the Borrower for
                   updating said Action Plan including, inter alia,
                   the tariff increases required to enable the
                   Borrower to comply with Section 5.02 of this
                   Agreement and to generate sufficient cash
                   revenues to finance the capital expenditures
                   required for the Project as programmed in said
                   Action Plan;

      (c)   not later than November 30, furnish to the Bank for
review and approval modifications proposed for updating said Action
Plan in the event the Bank and the Borrower do not reach an
agreement on the Borrower’s initial proposal pursuant to sub-
paragraph (b) above; and

     (d)   thereafter carry out said Action Plan as modified in
agreement with the Bank.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:

      (a) not later than May 31, 1993, carry out and review with the
Bank an assessment of the Borrower’s operational and financial
performance during the January 1, 1993 through April 30, 1993
period, including, inter alia, water sales and the adequacy of
tariffs and other revenues and operating costs to generate
sufficient cash revenues to finance the 1993 capital expenditures as
programmed in the Action Plan; and

      (b) not later than July 1, 1993, take all necessary measures
to meet the requirements for the 1993 capital expenditures.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, during detailed design and



construction supervision, carry out a plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for mitigating the environmental impacts of the Project.

      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                           ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audited
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, starting in the 1993 fiscal year, funds
for investment internally generated during the current fiscal year,
the previous fiscal year and the following fiscal year equivalent to
no less than 50% of the Borrower’s aggregate capital expenditures
incurred during the current and previous fiscal years and the
capital expenditures expected to be incurred during the following
fiscal year.

      (b)   Before November 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower



and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.

      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and

                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance and taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                         provision for depreciation and other non-
                         cash operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                         working capital other than cash and other
                         cash outflows other than capital
                         expenditures.

           (ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:

                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and

                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.

          (iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   fiscal year.

           (iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.

            (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                   lieu of taxes, and dividends.

           (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.



          (vii)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations, excluding expenditures
                   financed by the State Hydraulic Works and the
                   Iller Bank.

         (viii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.

         Section 5.03. The Borrower shall maintain its system of
automatic tariff adjustments each calendar quarter to reflect the
inflation, based on the Guarantor’s consumer price index, of the
preceding calendar quarter.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Bursa Water Supply and Sewerage Administration Act shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such
a way as to materially or adversely effect the ability of the
Borrower to carry out the obligations set forth in this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall have selected consultants to assist,
through twinning arrangements, in carrying out the institutional
development requirements of the Action Plan.

      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

 For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)



                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Bursa Water Supply and Sewerage
              Authority
            Acemler
            Republic of Turkey

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                   By /s/ M. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                   BURSA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY

                   By /s/ A. M. Egilmez
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works               67,000,000        47%

(2) Goods                     18,000,000        47%

(3) Technical Assistance:                       100%

    (a) Engineering and       10,000,000
        Project Management
        Unit

    (b) Investigation,         4,000,000
        survey and mapping

    (c) Institutional          8,000,000
        strengthening
        and training

(4) Refunding of               1,100,000        Amount due
    Project Prepara-                            pursuant to



    tion Advance                                Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of this Agreement

(5) Unallocated                8,900,000
                             ___________

         TOTAL               117,000,000
                             ===========

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000, may be
made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1992.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve environment
conditions and reduce health hazards in the Bursa metropolitan area;
(b) improve the institutional arrangements regarding the management
of municipal water supply; (c) meet the demand for water supply,
sewerage and flood protection services, including the demand from
the poor living on the fringes of Bursa; (d) improve the efficiency
of water usage by reducing the volume of non-revenue water; and (e)
implement appropriate cost recovery policies.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Water Supply

(1)   Renovation of existing springs to improve their production
capacity and installation of about 35 km of new pipelines.

(2)   Rehabilitation and improvement of existing distribution
networks.

(3)   Construction of about 10 new wells to increase the production
of well fields and the installation of about three new pumping
groups to improve pumping stations.

(4)   Construction of a 30,000 m3 capacity distribution reservoir to
provide the storage capacity required for increased water demand.

(5)   Construction of main pipelines totalling about 70 km to extend
the supply to new distribution networks and to improve the supply in
the existing networks, and extension of existing distribution
networks to supply new consumers in new areas covering about 800 ha.

Part B:     Sewerage

(1)   Extension of the collection networks by constructing new
collectors, constructing new collection networks, converting
existing networks into stormwater drainage networks and constructing
new sewer connections.

(2)   Construction of a wastewater treatment plant located east of
Bursa, consisting of pre-treatment works and anaerobic ponds, and
construction of a wastewater treatment plant located west of Bursa,
using the above pre-treatment facilities and adding activated sludge
treatment facilities, both plants to treat and dispose of sewage
flows collected by the sewerage networks.

Part C:     Storm Water Drainage

(1)   Rehabilitation of the existing storm water drainage networks
covering about 4,500 ha, including completing the networks,
replacing damaged pipes, constructing proper catch pits and manholes



and cleaning the pipes.

(2)   Construction of open channel interceptors K1, K3 and K3 of
about 9 km in length in south Bursa to prevent clogging of the storm
water drainage collection system.

(3)   Extension of the collection system by installing about 14 km
of collectors and constructing networks in new areas covering about
340 ha.

Part D:     Technical Assistance

(1)   Provision of technical assistance relating to Project
implementation as follows: (a) detailed design and construction
supervision for the water supply, sewerage and drainage works; and
(b) survey, investigations and mapping of the water supply and
sewerage systems.

(2)   Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Borrower in: (a) design and
implementation of a training program for the managers and staff of
the Borrower; (b) design and implementation of a program to increase
the volume of water billed as a proportion of water produced; (c)
design and implementation of an Asset and Capital Investment
Management System; (d) design and implementation of a Recording
Management and Information System; and (e) design and implementation
of a new water and sewerage tariff schedule.

(3)    Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of a
feasibility study on a contractual arrangement for the operation of
the Bursa water supply and sewerage system.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning August 1, 1998            4,875,000
      through February 1, 2010

_____________________________

*     The figure in this column represents dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                       Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity



More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$15,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Maintenance equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Maintenance equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $600,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and to each contract for
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be



furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ management, financial and engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    Project Management Unit

      The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain
the Project Management Unit (PMU), on the basis of terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the sole function of
administration of the Project with the support of the Borrower’s
Planning and Investment Department. The PMU shall have such staff
and facilities as shall be required to perform its technical and
administrative responsibilities under the Project, including a
director and not less than two specialists (an engineer and a
financial analyst) whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU shall be responsible for, inter
alia: (a) the preparation of terms of reference, administration of
proposal evaluation and award of contracts for consultants’ services
and training; and (b) supervision of the work of consultants
employed under the Project and the training provided under the
Project. The PMU shall also be responsible for monitoring Project
implementation and expenditures, preparing withdrawal applications
and preparing and furnishing to the Bank reports on Project
implementation.

2.    Reporting Requirements

      The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and
the Bank: (a) not later than 60 days after each calendar quarter
ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, a
consolidated report on Project implementation for the preceding
calendar quarter covering the physical progress measured against
construction and procurement schedules and monitoring indicators
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) not later than six months after the
date set forth in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, furnish to the
Bank the Project completion report.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this



Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding



special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.