World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3661 TUN

                          Loan Agreement

               (Agricultural Sector Investment Loan)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 22, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3661 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1993, between the REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "affected person" means a person, either holder of real
or personal rights to land or landless: (i) who for at least one (1)
year prior to the date of the publication of the decree referred to
in Article 12 of the Borrower’s Expropriation Law No. 76-85 dated
August 17, 1976, as amended from time to time, has ordinarily been
residing in, or cultivating land, or carrying on any trade,
occupation, or calling or working for gain, in the area expropriated
(including the area immediately contiguous thereto) for the purpose
of Part A.1 of the Project; and (ii) who would be involuntarily
displaced from his or her usual place of residence or work due to
the said land acquisition;

      (b)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (c)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as amended from
time to time;

      (d)   "CRDA" means a Regional Commissariat for Agricultural
Development (Commissariat Regional au developpement agricole), an
administrative public institution established and operating under
the Borrower’s Law 89-44 dated March 8, 1989;

      (e)   "Development Action Plan" means the Borrower’s plan of
objectives, policies and actions designed to further the efficiency
and sound development of the Borrower’s agriculture sector, agreed
and set forth in a letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to
the Bank;

      (f)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year;

      (g)   "MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l’Agriculture) established and operating pursuant to
the Borrower’s Decree No. 87-779 dated May 21, 1987, as amended by
the Borrower’s Decree No. 88-1101 dated June 9, 1988, and as may be
further amended from time to time; and

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each



withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section



            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agriculture, economic, engineering, environmental,
financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine (9) months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and



          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                   Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Borrower shall have employed, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the consultants to
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the activities under
Parts A.11 and B.7 of the Project; and

      (b)   the Borrower shall have published in its Journal
Officiel the decree, in form and content satisfactory to the Bank,
setting forth the functions of the Veterinarian Research Institute
of Tunisia (Institut de la Recherche veterinaire de Tunisie) and its
administrative and financial organization.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:



            Ministry of International Cooperation and
              Foreign Investment
            149, Avenue de la Liberte
            1002 Tunis-Belvedere
            Republic of Tunisia

      Cable address:                       Telex:

            MCIIE                            18060

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil

                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser

                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Civil Works             105,100,000       60%
      for Part A
      of the Project



(2)   Goods, including         13,500,000       100% of foreign
      Equipment, Materials,                     expenditures and
      Vehicles, and                             80% of local
      Veterinary Drugs                          expenditures

(3)   Consultants’              1,400,000       100%
      Services, Training
      and Studies
                              ___________

      TOTAL                   120,000,000
                              ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support the growth of the
Borrower’s agriculture sector. To this end, the Project aims to: (i)
reorient and rationalize the Borrower’s role in the sector through
improved management of public resources and promote private sector
activity; (ii) improve the economic impact of public investments in
the sector; and (iii) strengthen the Borrower’s institutional
capabilities for planning, preparation and implementation of
investment programs.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Investment Program

      Carrying out of the Borrower’s Fiscal Years 1994, 1995, 1996
and 1997 agricultural investment programs, selected in accordance
with suitable policies and procedures, and consisting of the
following activities:

1.    Construction of hill dams and associated small-scale
irrigation schemes, and carrying out of a program to improve cost-
benefits monitoring and evaluation services and enhance benefit
generation of hill dams in the country, and provision of training to
staff of the MOA as required therefor.

2.    Creation of tubewells and establishment of associated small-
scale irrigation schemes, and rehabilitation and modernization of
existing irrigation parameters.

3.    Development and carrying out of a program of groundwater
surveying and monitoring, including creation of tubewells, and
provision of equipment and materials as required therefor.

4.    Carrying out of works for the provision of potable water in
the Borrower’s rural areas, and provision of equipment and materials
as required therefor.

5.    Carrying out of a program to improve the efficiency,
management and operation of the water supply system in the
Borrower’s northern region, in particular through enhanced demand
estimation, water measurement, and processing of operation data, and
provision of equipment, management information systems, training to
the staff of the MOA and consultants’ services as required therefor.



6.    Formulation of a suitable program of animal health services,
consisting of the: (i) implementation of a national program of
obligatory vaccination campaigns; (ii) development of a disease
surveillance network for epidemiological monitoring, including the
strengthening of laboratories; (iii) establishment of about fifteen
(15) Hygiene and Inspection Units for Animal Food Products (Unites
d’hygiene et inspection des denrees alimentaires d’origine animale)
in selected governorate, and provision of equipment, vehicles,
veterinary drugs, vaccines, and training to specialized staff of the
MOA as required therefor.

7.    Formulation of an appropriate program of livestock
development, including the: (i) establishment of a program of
rangeland improvement through enhanced forage production and range
management practices; and (ii) implementation of a livestock genetic
improvement program, including the preparation of a study to
evaluate the desirability of privatizing said programs, and
provision of seeds and plants, equipment, vehicles, breeding stock,
semen, and training to specialized staff of the MOA as required
therefor.

8.    Construction of small fish ports in the Borrower’s northern
coastal zones and related access roads, improvement of selected port
sites to control sedimentation, and rehabilitation and modernization
of port infrastructure so as to ensure its compliance with
international standards for sea product quality.

9.    Carrying out of a program to protect and conserve the
Borrower’s soil and natural resources from erosion, consisting of:
(i) mechanical terracing and bunding, gully consolidation,
biological stabilization of contour ridges, range planting, and
development of a monitoring and evaluation system and research for
said program; and (ii) a pilot program to test alternatives for
carrying out soil conservation activities through contracting with
farmers’ associations, and provision of training as required for
this Section A.9.

10.   Carrying out of a program of water resources mobilization
through construction of small-scale rural works consisting of ponds,
infiltration dams, and weirs for spate irrigation.

11.   Development, on the basis of a pilot action identified by a
study on land consolidation, of land tenure options for voluntary
consolidation of fragmented parcels of land in the Borrower’s
rainfed areas, and carrying out of small-scale rural infrastructure
and studies as required therefor.

Part B:     Institutional Strengthening

      Provision of consultants’ services and training, and carrying
out of studies, to implement a program to strengthen the institu-
tional and planning capabilities of the MOA and the Borrower’s
agencies responsible for implementation activities in the agri-
culture sector, including:

1.    Development of a suitable system to improve the MOA’s
budgetary monitoring procedures so as to ensure the timely avail-
ability of information on the implementation status of investments
to the MOA’s organisms responsible for the implementation of
investment programs, strengthening of the CRDAs units responsible
for budget monitoring and evaluation functions, and provision of
equipment as required therefor.

2.    Development and carrying out of a medium-term plan by the MOA
to implement adequate organizational, staffing and budgetary
adjustments necessary to rationalize and improve the decentra-
lization process of its activities to the CRDAs.

3.    Development of a national program to improve and rationalize
on-farm irrigation water use, including measures designed to
develop, evaluate, and diffuse new adaptive research technologies



and strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Rural
Engineering Research Center (Centre de recherche de genie rural).

4.    Development and carrying out of a suitable strategy to improve
the procedures applied by the MOA: (i) in the design of animal
health programs, so as to ensure, inter alia, the proper analysis of
the impact of public investments in livestock disease control; and
(ii) in the economic appraisal methodology for new port infra-
structure, in order to optimize the size of harbor facilities and
the use of equipment and facilitate the determination of port
tariffs, and strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the
Directorate for Veterinary Public Hygiene (Direction d’hygiene
publique veterinaire) to improve the program of hygiene and quality
control of animal and sea products.

5.    Development and carrying out of medium-term plans at the
regional level to enhance and foster the MOA’s investment management
capabilities in soil and water conservation activities through
expanded research, establishment of a suitable monitoring and
evaluation system therefor, and provision of equipment.

6.    Reinforcement of the MOA’s capabilities in environmental
assessment activities, so as to ensure the adequate preparation and
review of impact evaluation studies and the suitable implementation
of mitigation plans in accordance with the requirements of the
national legislation thereon, and provision of training.

7.    Strengthening of the institutional and operational
capabilities of the Borrower’s agency responsible for implementing
Part A.11 of the Project, including provision of equipment for
socio-economic and technical surveys and vehicles as required
therefor.

9.    Development and carrying out of a strategy to support: (i) the
promotion of the associations of users of rural potable water; (ii)
the creation and promotion of associations of users of hill ponds;
(iii) the progressive introduction of association of users of water
in public irrigation perimeters; and (iv) on the basis of the
foregoing, the suitable expansion of the activities of the users’
associations support units within the CRDA.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 1 and August 1

      beginning August 1, 1999
      through   August 1, 2010             5,000,000

And on February 1, 2011                    5,000,000