World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3579 IND

            (Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 26, 1993

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3579 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
                  under which any further withdrawals under the
                  Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
                  Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
                  Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning
Agency, an agency of the Borrower, and includes any successor or
successors thereto.

      (b)   "DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways of MPW
and includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (c)   "DPUK" and "DPUKs" mean singularly the Office (Dinas) of
Public Works of a Kabupaten and collectively the Offices (Dinas) of
Public Works of Kabupatens, selected for participation in the
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and
includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (d)   "DPUP" and "DPUPs" mean singularly a Provincial Office
(Dinas) of Public Works of the Borrower and collectively the
Provincial Offices (Dinas) of Public Works of the Borrower and
includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (e)   "Indigenous Peoples"  means those social groups in
Indonesia that (i) have a distinct social and cultural identity, and
(ii) are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development
process induced by the Project or any part thereof.

      (f)   "Kabupaten" means a district, an administrative sub-
division, of the Borrower.

      (g)   "MHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower
and includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (h)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and
includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (i)   "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower
and includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (j)   "Project Kabupatens" means the Kabupatens selected for
participation in the Project by the Borrower as agreed by the Bank.

      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

      (l)   "Sub-project" and "Sub-projects" means singularly a sub-
project and collectively the sub-projects included in Part A.1 of
the Project.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred fifty five million dollars ($155,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.



      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in the Bank of Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
            to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
            on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding



            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."

            "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."

            "(c) (iii)  ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic, engineering and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, goods required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured from a list satisfactory to the Bank.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail



                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate-General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:



            International Bank for
                   Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By  /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly

                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By  /s/ Gautam S. Kaji

                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Civil works:

      (a) under Part            48,800,000      37%
          A.1 (a) of the
          Project

      (b) under Part            42,000,000      37%
          A.1 (b) of the
          Project

      (c) under Part A.2(a)      1,200,000      37%
          of the Project

(2)   Supervision of civil      19,500,000      100%
      works under Part A.4

(3)   Equipment,                19,500,000      100% of foreign
      spare parts                               expenditures,
      and supplies                              100% of local
                                                expenditures



                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(4)   Consultants’               8,000,000      100%
      services

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(5)   Training:

      (a) professional             300,000      100%
          training under
          Part C.1 (c)
          and C.1 (d) of
          the Project

      (b) in-house training      1,400,000      50%
          delivery under
          Part C.1 (e) of
          the Project

(6)   Unallocated               14,300,000

                               ___________

      TOTAL                    155,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, may
be made in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1993; (b) under Category 1 (a), unless the Bank has received
evidence that the Borrower has complied with its obligation under
paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (c) by a Project
Kabupaten under Category 1 (a), unless its annual road maintenance
program, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
for each previous fiscal year has been implemented to the
satisfaction of the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to (i) increase access for
the Borrower’s population living in Project Kabupatens to economic
centers, and (ii) enhance planning and implementation capacity of
the Borrower’s agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such



modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Road Network Maintenance and Improvement

1.    Increasing the quality of Kabupaten road maintenance system
and elevating the standard of Kabupaten road network through sub-
projects comprising (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
approximately 3,000 kilometers of roads, and (b) maintenance of
approximately 12,500 kilometers of roads in fifty-one Project
Kabupatens.

2.    (a) Construction of about fifteen new workshops and twenty
laboratories in Project Kabupatens, and (b) provision of equipment
for the said workshops and laboratories.

3.    Provision of road construction and maintenance equipment,
spare parts, and supplies to Project Kabupatens.

4.    Provision of supervision services for road works programs.

Part B: Technology Adaptation and Dissemination

1.    Introduction and dissemination of innovative technologies for
use in Kabupaten road works.

2.    Improvement and dissemination of labour-based technologies for
use in Kabupaten road works.

Part C: Training and Technical Assistance

1.    Implementation of priority parts of a nation-wide Kabupaten
Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP) prepared by the Borrower,
including: (a) preparation of training programs including course
design and materials development; (b) provision of equipment and
supplies for training programs preparation and delivery; (c)
training of trainers; (d) professional staff training by specialized
institutions; (e) in-house delivery of training programs; and (f)
strengthening of the institutions involved in training including the
setting up of systems for training needs analysis and monitoring and
evaluation.

2.    Provision of technical assistance to the departments and
agencies of the Borrower concerned with the Project through: (a)
technical support and liaison for engineering aspects including
evaluation of implementation of technical guidelines and
specifications, and for technical audits; (b) general assistance in
planning including further development of the planning
methodologies, carrying out of special studies of road works needs
in under-developed areas, analyzing the current situation and issues
regarding village roads, assessing the size of the road network that
Project Kabupatens can economically and financially maintain and
rehabilitate, and assessing the long-term indirect impact of road
rehabilitation and improvement on the environment; (c) assistance in
the monitoring and coordination of project activities, including the
coordination of the separate teams of field consultants for
implementation (FCI) and training consultants, the monitoring of
project environmental impact, and the preparation of consolidated
project implementation reports; (d) support in the preparation of
annual road works programs including, inter alia, the environmental
screening of proposed sub-projects, the carrying out of site-
specific environmental assessments when required, the systematic
review of sub-projects’ economic viability, and the extension of
planning methodologies to non-project Kabupatens; (e) support
preparation of environmental assessments for future projects; and
(f) strengthen the central and provincial environmental assessment
capacity of the Borrower.

                       *         *         *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.



                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

August 1, 1998                             2,900,000
February 1, 1999                           3,005,000
August 1, 1999                             3,115,000
February 1, 2000                           3,235,000
August 1, 2000                             3,355,000
February 1, 2001                           3,480,000
August 1, 2001                             3,605,000
February 1, 2002                           3,740,000
August 1, 2002                             3,880,000
February 1, 2003                           4,025,000
August 1, 2003                             4,175,000
February 1, 2004                           4,330,000
August 1, 2004                             4,490,000
February 1, 2005                           4,655,000
August 1, 2005                             4,830,000
February 1, 2006                           5,010,000
August 1, 2006                             5,195,000
February 1, 2007                           5,385,000
August 1, 2007                             5,590,000
February 1, 2008                           5,795,000
August 1, 2008                             6,010,000
February 1, 2009                           6,235,000
August 1, 2009                             6,465,000
February 1, 2010                           6,705,000
August 1, 2010                             6,955,000
February 1, 2011                           7,215,000
August 1, 2011                             7,480,000
February 1, 2012                           7,760,000
August 1, 2012                             8,045,000
February 1, 2013                           8,335,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity



More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C.2 hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).  For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures (including prequalification procedures and contract
packaging criteria) satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b)   Civil works for road routine maintenance, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $19,000,000, may be carried out by
force account.

2.    (a)   Except as provided in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) hereof,
items or groups of items for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

      (b)   Except as provided in sub-paragraph (c) hereof, items or
groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.



      (c)   Contracts for spare parts, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $300,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations
with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 and $200,000 or more
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall, under the general supervision and guidance
of a Coordinating Committee chaired by BAPPENAS, carry out the
Project as follows:

      (a)   Part A.1 and A.2 (a) of the Project shall be carried out
by DPUKs with the assistance of concerned DPUPs.

      (b)   Parts A.2 (b), A.3, A.4, and B of the Project shall be
carried out by DGH.

      (c)   Part C of the Project shall be carried out by DGH and
MHA and the concerned DPUKs.

2.    The Borrower shall maintain (a) the Project Secretariat
established under the Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project
(Loan Number 3490 IND) in the same form and for the similar purpose
of assisting the Coordinating Committee referred to in paragraph 1
hereof; and (b) the Project Implementation Unit in DGH and supported
by MHA, established under the said project, to assist, and monitor



progress, in project implementation including preparation of annual
programs, procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures.

3.    The Borrower shall cause each Project Kabupaten to (a) prepare
and, by December 31, 1993 and December 31, 1994, submit, for the
Bank’s review and comments, its annual road maintenance program for
the fiscal years 1994-95 and 1995-96 respectively in accordance with
criteria and methodology agreed to by the Bank, and (b) finalize and
implement the said annual road maintenance program taking into
account the comments, if any, by the Bank.

4.    The Borrower shall cause each Project Kabupaten to (a) prepare
and, by December 31, 1993 and December 31, 1994, submit, for the
Bank’s review and comments, its annual rehabilitation and
improvement works program in respect of the Project for the fiscal
years 1994-95 and 1995-96 respectively in accordance with criteria
and methodology agreed to by the Bank, and (b) finalize and
implement the said annual rehabilitation and improvement works
program taking into account the comments, if any, by the Bank.

5.    The Borrower shall select, design and implement Sub-projects
for the Project Kabupatens in accordance with criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including environmental
assessments therefor and, inter alia, baseline data of the social
structure and income sources of the concerned Indigenous Peoples, if
any.

6.    (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C.1 of the Project in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b) Notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower shall, (a) prepare and, by December 31, 1994 and December
31, 1995, submit for the Bank’s review and comments, its annual
program for in-house delivery of training programs for the fiscal
years 1995-96, and 1996-97 respectively, and (b) finalize and
implement the said annual program taking into account the comments,
if any, by the Bank.

7.    The Borrower is committed to the protection of interests of
Indigenous Peoples and hereby agrees to ensure that the benefits
they receive under the Project are in harmony with their economic,
social, and cultural preferences. Notwithstanding the generality of
the foregoing, the Borrower shall (i) through a process of informed
participation, involve the concerned Indigenous Peoples in the
preparation and implementation of the relevant Sub-projects as
agreed with the Bank, and (ii) mitigate or avoid adverse effects on
Indigenous Peoples caused or likely to be caused by the Project.

8.    The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1993, establish a team
comprising independent and experienced social science professionals,
as agreed with the Bank, to monitor the effects of the Project on
Indigenous Peoples and to ensure compliance with or implementation
of the Borrower’s obligations hereunder, and (ii) by December 31 of
each year, commencing 1994, submit to the Bank an annual report in
respect thereof in a form satisfactory to the Bank.

9.    The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1993, appoint consultants
for strengthening the central and provincial environmental capacity
of the Borrower under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.

10.   The Borrower shall allocate adequate funds for purchase of
vehicles, as agreed with the Bank, in its 1993-94 budget for use by
Project Kabupatens in the implementation of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3,
4 and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this



Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $11,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding



special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.