World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3510 EC

                          Loan Agreement

    (Second Social Development Project -- Health and Nutrition)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated February 8, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3510 EC

                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to five hundred thousand Dollars ($500,000) to assist in
financing Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and UNDP; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "CEMEIM" means MSP’s (as hereinafter defined) Centro
Estatal de Medicamentos e Insumos M�dicos (State Medicine and
Medical Supply Center), created pursuant to Decree 3913 published in
the Borrower's Registro Oficial on April 28, 1988;

      (b)   "CRM" means  the Borrower's Centro de Rehabilitaci›n de
Manabò (Manabò Rehabilitation Center), created pursuant to Decree
2180 published in the Borrower's Registro Oficial on January 30,
1978;

      (c)   "CRM Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower
and CRM, for carrying out Part C.1 (a)-(c) of the Project in the
province of Manabò, referred to in Section 3.12 (c) of this
Agreement;

      (d)   "CONADE" means the Borrower's Consejo Nacional de
Desarrollo (National Development Council);

      (e)   "Execution Model 1" means the model whereby IEOS (as
hereinafter defined), through and under the supervision of its
Provincial Directorates (as hereinafter defined) and with the
assistance of a procurement agent referred to in Section 3.21 of
this Agreement, shall directly carry out its obligations under Part
C.1 of the Project, with private contractors being used only for the
(i) water supply facility design and siting; (ii) water supply
facility and latrine construction; and (iii) auditing components of
such obligations;

      (f)   "Execution Model 2" means the model whereby IEOS (as
hereinafter defined), through and under the supervision of its
Provincial Directorates (as hereinafter defined) and with the
assistance of a procurement agent referred to in Section 3.21 of
this Agreement, shall cause all its obligations under Part C.1 (a)-
(c) of the Project to be carried out through private contractors
(including non-governmental organizations);

      (g)   "Execution Model 3" means the model whereby IEOS (as
hereinafter defined), through and under the supervision of its
Provincial Directorates (as hereinafter defined) and with the
assistance of a procurement agent referred to in Section 3.21 of
this Agreement, shall cause all its obligations under Part C.1 (a)-
(c) of the Project to be carried out through one global contract
with a non-governmental organization;

      (h)   "Execution Model 4" means a model: (i) identical (in the
case of the province of Manabò) to Execution Model 2, except that
CRM shall act in the place of IEOS (as hereinafter defined); and
(ii) identical (in the case of the province of Guayas) to Execution
Model 3, except that MSP (as hereinafter defined), through and under
the supervision of its provincial delegation and without the
assistance of a procurement agent, shall act in the place of IEOS
(as hereinafter defined);

      (i)   "Health Service Areas" means the following Areas de



Salud as generically referred to in Decree 3292 published in the
Borrower's Registro Oficial on May 11, 1992: Chimbacalle, Guamanò,
La Magdalena, Chillogallo, Nor-Oriente and Santo Domingo Sur in the
province of Pichincha; Guasmo Sur, Trinitaria, Guasmo Norte,
Santiago de Guayaquil, El Empalme and Basti›n Popular in the
province of Guayas; Guamote, Riobamba Sur-Este and Alausi in the
province of Chimborazo; Cuba Libre, Andr�s de Vera and Paj�n in the
province of Manabò; Loja Sur Occidental, Saraguro and Catamayo in
the province of Loja; Yanuncay and Santa Isabel in the province of
Azuay; Tulc�n 1 in the province of Carchi; Saquisili and El Coraz›n
in the province of Cotopaxi; Simiatug and San Miguel in the province
of Bolòvar; Ambato 4 and Quero in the province of Tungurahua;
Esmeraldas Norte, Esmeraldas Sur and San Lorenzo in the province of
Esmeraldas; Machala Sur in the province of El Oro; Babahoyo Nor-Este
and Babahoyo Sur-Este in the province of Los Ròos; Otavalo and
Ibarra Sur in the province of Imbabura; CaŸar in the province of
CaŸar; and Nueva Loja in the province of Sucumbòos;

      (j)   "IEOS" means the Borrower's Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Obras Sanitarias (Ecuadorean Sanitation Works Institute), created
pursuant to Decree 179 published in the Borrower's Registro Oficial
on February 4, 1965;

      (k)   "IEOS Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and IEOS, for carrying out Part C.1 of the Project (except
for Part C.1 (a)-(c) in the provinces of Guayas and Manabò),
referred to in Section 3.12 (a) of this Agreement;

      (l)   "IESS" means the Borrower's Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Seguridad Social (Ecuadorean Social Security Institute);

      (m)   "INEM" means the Borrower's Instituto Nacional de Empleo
(National Employment Institute), created pursuant to Decree 942
published in the Borrower's Registro Oficial on July 18, 1985;

      (n)   "Juntas" means the Juntas Administradoras de Agua
Potable y Alcantarillado (Water Supply and Sewerage Administrative
Boards), already existing or to be created for purposes of the
Project, governed by the terms of Decree 3327 published in the
Borrower's Registro Oficial on March 29, 1979;

      (o)   "MBS" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Bienestar
Social (Ministry of Social Welfare);

      (p)   "MINFIN" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Finanzas y
Cr�dito P�blico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit);

      (q)   "MSP" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Salud P�blica
(Ministry of Public Health);

      (r)   "PCU" means MSP's Project coordinating unit as referred
to in Section 3.15 of this Agreement;

      (s)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated March 20, 1987, May 29, 1987 and August 9,
1991 between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (t)   "Provincial Directorates" means the Direcciones
Provinciales of IEOS in the provinces of Azuay, Chimborazo, Guayas,
Loja, Manabò and Pichincha, referred to in the Reglamento Org�nico
y Funcional (Organic and Functional Regulations) of IEOS as amended
pursuant to MSP Acuerdo (Resolution) 5721 published in the
Borrower's Registro Oficial on June 28, 1990; and

      (u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan



      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of seventy million Dollars ($70,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco del
Estado on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.



          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:

      (a)   shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (b)-(c), B, C.1 (a)-
(c) (in the province of Guayas according to Execution Model 4), C.2
and D of the Project through MSP, and Part A.3 (a) of the Project
through CEMEIM, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, public health and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such
Parts of the Project (including the funds required to meet all
operation and maintenance costs not financed by the proceeds of the
Loan); and

      (b)   shall: (i) cause IEOS to carry out Part C.1 of the
Project (except Part C.1 (a)-(c) in the provinces of Guayas and
Manabò) and CRM to carry out Part C.1 (a)-(c) of the Project in the
province of Manabò, all under supervision of MSP and with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, public health and
environmental practices; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IEOS and CRM to carry
out their respective Parts of the Project; and (iii) shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with the carrying out by IEOS and CRM of their respective Parts of
the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
No food items produced by MSP food plants may be procured for the



Project unless and until such plants have been transferred to
private sector majority ownership and control.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of their respective
Parts of the Project shall be carried out by IEOS and CRM.

      Section 3.04. During the first two years after the Effective
Date, Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out only for the
Health Service Areas of Chimbacalle, Guasmo Sur, Guamote, Guamanò,
Trinitaria, Cuba Libre, Loja Sur Occidental and Yanuncay.

      Section 3.05. With regard to Part A.2 (a) of the Project, the
Borrower, through MSP, shall, inter alia, for each group of approxi-
mately 600 families in a Health Service Area, perform health care
outreach activities through a basic health care team comprised of
between one and four physicians and two to ten nurses and auxiliary
personnel, such auxiliary personnel to include community health
assistants selected and trained by MSP from among candidates
presented by the community served by such team. At least once each
year during Project implementation, each such team shall visit each
of its approximately 600 families to conduct a health assessment of,
and prepare an annual health care plan for, each family, such visit
to be followed-up by at least four yearly visits to each family by
a nurse or community health assistant from the team so as to ensure
application of the prepared annual health care plan.

      Section 3.06. (a) With regard to Part A.1 of the Project, the
health subcenters, centers and hospitals referred to in such Part
shall be chosen according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall, for each fiscal year
during Project implementation, provide each MSP facility in Health
Service Areas with funds, in an amount satisfactory to the Bank, and
shall allow each such facility to administer such funds as each such
facility deems necessary in order to meet nonsalary expenses
incurred by such facility (including expenses incurred for simple
maintenance of the facility and its furniture and equipment and for
the purchase of office supplies).

      Section 3.07. The Borrower, through MSP, shall staff the
facilities referred to in Part A.2 of the Project with a total of
approximately 1,300 physicians and dentists, 2,000 nurses (including
nursing and dental assistants), 300 medical technicians, 700
community health assistants referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement and 600 administrative employees. Only a maximum of 1,600
such staff positions may consist of new positions created by MSP
after January 31, 1992, and such new positions shall include all
dental assistants and community health assistants referred to in
this Section. The Borrower, through MSP, shall hire such new staff
and redeploy existing MSP staff for purposes of the Project in
accordance with the terms and timetable contained in the staffing
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith.

      Section 3.08. (a) Except for generic medicines covered as of
January 31, 1992 by MSP's Medicamentos Gen�ricos para Menores de
Catorce AŸos (Generic Medicine for Minors under Age Fourteen) and
Medicamentos para Enfermedades de Alto Riesgo (Medicine for High-
Risk Diseases) programs, medicines covered under Part A.3 (a) of the
Project shall be sold by MSP to those patients which require them at
prices which shall result in a recovery by MSP of at least 30% of
all direct and indirect costs incurred by MSP in obtaining, dis-
tributing and storing medicines and in providing them to patients
through April 1996, and at least 35% from May 1996 through December
1998. Such percentages shall be calculated taking into account all
medicines provided, both for free and at a price, by MSP facilities
to patients in Health Service Areas from January 31, 1992 through
April 30, 1996 (to determine whether the 30% target is met) and from
May 1, 1996 through December 31, 1998 (to determine whether the 35%



target is met).

      (b)   The studies referred to in Part A.3 (c) of the Project
shall be completed by consultants and presented to the Bank by no
later than July 15, 1993. By no later than November 30, 1993, the
Borrower, through MSP, shall present to the Bank a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the recommendations of
such studies and shall thereafter carry out such plan of action in
accordance with its terms.

      (c)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall take all reasonable
measures to ensure that all medicine used for the Project be of
suitable quality.

      Section 3.09. Beginning on January 1, 1994, the Borrower,
through MSP and with the use of consultants, shall carry out a study
of the cost effectiveness of Part B.1 (b) of the Project in
encouraging use of MSP facilities by the poorest sectors of the
population of Health Service Areas. By no later than August 1, 1995,
the Borrower, through MSP, shall present to the Bank the results of
such study. By no later than November 15, 1995, the Borrower,
through MSP, shall present to the Bank a plan of action, satis-
factory to the Bank, for implementing the recommendations of such
study and shall thereafter carry out such plan of action in
accordance with its terms.

      Section 3.10. Beginning on October 1, 1993, the Borrower,
through MSP and with the use of consultants, shall carry out a study
of the impact and effectiveness of Part B.1 (d) of the Project. By
no later than December 1, 1995, the Borrower, through MSP, shall
present to the Bank the results of such study. By no later than
February 15, 1996, the Borrower, through MSP, shall present to the
Bank a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing
the recommendations of such study and shall thereafter carry out
such plan of action in accordance with its terms.

      Section 3.11. By no later than June 15, 1993, the Borrower,
through MSP and with the use of consultants, shall carry out and
present to the Bank the results of a study on the feasibility of
fortifying a powdered milk and corn meal mixture with micro-
nutrients. If such study indicates that such fortification is
feasible, the Borrower, through MSP, shall, by no later than July
31, 1993, present to the Bank a plan of action, satisfactory to the
Bank, for obtaining and providing such fortified mixture and shall
thereafter carry out Part B.1 (c) of the Project in accordance with
the terms of such plan of action.

      Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower, through MSP, shall cause IEOS
to carry out Part C.1 of the Project (except Part C.1 (a)-(c) in the
provinces of Guayas and Manabò) pursuant to the IEOS Agreement, the
terms of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such terms shall,
inter alia and in addition to the provisions of paragraph (b) of
this Section and the provisions of Section 3.20 of this Agreement,
include the following:

            (i)    that the Provincial Directorates in the
                   provinces of Azuay and Pichincha shall carry out
                   Part C.1 of the Project in such provinces
                   according to Execution Model 1;

           (ii)    that the Provincial Directorate in the province
                   of Loja shall carry out Part C.1 of the Project
                   in such province according to Execution Model 2;

          (iii)    that the Provincial Directorate in the province
                   of Chimborazo shall carry out Part C.1 of the
                   Project in such province according to Execution
                   Model 3;

           (iv)    that the Provincial Directorates in the
                   provinces of Guayas and Manabò shall carry out
                   Part C.1 (d) of the Project in such provinces;



           (v)     that the Provincial Directorates in the
                   provinces of Azuay, Chimborazo, Loja and
                   Pichincha shall, according to methods and
                   criteria satisfactory to the Bank (which
                   criteria shall, inter alia, include that the
                   chosen communities demonstrate a verified need
                   and desire for such facilities as well as a
                   willingness and ability to pay the required
                   tariffs for such facilities), choose in which
                   communities to construct or upgrade water supply
                   facilities in such provinces;

           (vi)    that, prior to the commencement of civil works
                   under Part C.1 of the Project in a community in
                   the provinces of Azuay, Chimborazo, Loja and
                   Pichincha, IEOS shall enter into a contract with
                   the Junta for that community whereby, in
                   exchange for the construction or upgrading of
                   water supply facilities or the construction of
                   latrines by IEOS, the Junta commits to: (A)
                   provide the Provincial Directorate in its
                   province with 30% of the cost, if at all
                   possible in cash, of such water supply facility
                   construction or upgrading (plus, in cases where
                   individual house water connections are
                   installed, 100% in cash of the cost of such
                   connections and of individual meters for each of
                   such connections), prior to the completion of
                   such construction or upgrading; (B) provide the
                   Provincial Directorate in its province with 50%
                   of the cost, in cash or in labor and materials,
                   of such latrine construction, prior to the
                   completion of such construction; (C) collect
                   tariffs from water supply facility bene-
                   ficiaries, on a monthly basis, so that in each
                   year the Junta recovers 100% of the total
                   operating expenses with respect to such
                   facilities and latrines (expenses related to
                   operations, administration, maintenance and
                   taxes); (D) place the amounts collected pursuant
                   to subparagraph (vi) (C) of this paragraph in a
                   separate interest bearing account managed by the
                   Junta and use such amounts exclusively for
                   purposes of subparagraph (vi) (E) of this
                   paragraph; and (E) maintain and operate such
                   water supply facilities and latrines in a sound
                   manner;

          (vii)    that IEOS shall not fail to enforce any
                   provisions of the contracts referred to in
                   subparagraph (vi) of this paragraph and shall
                   exercise its rights under such contracts in such
                   a manner as to protect the interests of the
                   Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
                   purposes of the Loan;

         (viii)    that the Borrower shall provide IEOS with the
                   amounts referred to in paragraph (b) (ii)-(iii)
                   of this Section and shall, through a procurement
                   agent referred to in Section 3.21 of this
                   Agreement, perform all procurement and
                   contracting required for Part C.1 of the
                   Project, other than the procurement and
                   contracting performed by Provincial Directorates
                   pursuant to paragraph (b) (i) of this Section;

           (ix)    that IEOS shall use any cash amounts and
                   materials collected from a Junta pursuant to
                   subparagraph (vi) (A)-(B) of this paragraph
                   exclusively for the construction or upgrading of
                   water supply facilities or the construction of



                   latrines for which they were collected; and

            (x)    that IEOS shall provide the Juntas in the
                   provinces of Azuay, Chimborazo, Loja and
                   Pichincha, through the maintenance centers for
                   such provinces referred to in Part C.1 (c) of
                   the Project, with water supply facility
                   maintenance parts and services at cost.

      (b)   The IEOS Agreement shall also include terms whereby, in
order to allow Provincial Directorates sufficient autonomy to comply
with their obligations with respect to Part C.1 of the Project, IEOS
shall: (i) promulgate and/or apply internal regulations which allow
the Provincial Directorates to manage accounts, carry out pro-
curement of works by the method referred to in Part C.2 of Section
I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, pay the contractors for the works
so procured and in general perform all obligations referred to in
paragraph (a) (i)-(v) of this Section, without having to obtain
prior approval from IEOS headquarters in Quito; (ii) fund the
accounts referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, one for
each Provincial Directorate, with amounts (not to include Loan
proceeds) sufficient to cover the expenditures expected to be
incurred by such Provincial Directorate in a six-month period for
purposes of Part C.1 of the Project; and (iii) periodically
replenish such accounts with amounts, provided by the Borrower and
including Loan proceeds, required to reimburse the Provincial
Directorates for expenditures incurred for purposes of Part C.1 of
the Project.

      (c)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall cause CRM (in the
province of Manabò) to carry out Part C.1 (a)-(c) of the Project
pursuant to the CRM Agreement, the terms of which shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such terms shall, inter alia and in
addition to the provisions of Section 3.20 of this Agreement,
include the following:

            (i)    that CRM shall carry out Part C.1 (a)-(c) of the
                   Project according to Execution Model 4;

           (ii)    that CRM shall, according to methods and
                   criteria satisfactory to the Bank (which
                   criteria shall, inter alia, include that the
                   chosen communities demonstrate a verified need
                   and desire for such facilities as well as a
                   willingness and ability to pay the required
                   tariffs for such facilities), choose in which
                   communities to construct or upgrade water supply
                   facilities;

          (iii)    that, prior to the commencement of civil works
                   under Part C.1 of the Project in a community in
                   its province, CRM shall enter into a contract
                   with the Junta for that community, the terms of
                   which shall be identical, mutatis mutandis, to
                   the terms of the contract referred to in Section
                   3.12 (a) (vi) of this Agreement;

           (iv)    that CRM shall not fail to enforce any
                   provisions of the contracts referred to in
                   subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph and shall
                   exercise its rights under such contracts in such
                   a manner as to protect the interests of the
                   Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
                   purposes of the Loan;

            (v)    that the Borrower shall provide CRM with funds
                   required to cover CRM expenditures for purposes
                   of Part C.1 of the Project;

           (vi)    that CRM shall use any cash amounts and
                   materials collected from a Junta pursuant to
                   subparagraph (iii) (A)-(B) of this paragraph



                   exclusively for the construction or upgrading of
                   water supply facilities or the construction of
                   latrines for which they were collected; and

          (vii)    that CRM shall provide the Juntas in its
                   province, through the maintenance center for
                   such province referred to in Part C.1 (c) of the
                   Project, with water supply facility maintenance
                   parts and services at cost.

      (d)   Beginning on January 1, 1993, the Borrower, through MSP
and with the use of consultants, shall carry out the studies
referred to in Part C.2 (a) of the Project. By no later than
December 1, 1993, the Borrower, through MSP, shall present to the
Bank the results of such studies. By no later than March 1, 1994,
the Borrower, through MSP, shall present to the Bank a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the recom-
mendations of such studies and shall thereafter carry out such plan
of action in accordance with its terms. The Borrower, through MSP
and with the use of consultants, shall complete the inventory
referred to in Part C.2 (b) of the Project by no later than December
1, 1993.

      Section 3.13. The management information system referred to in
Part D.3 of the Project shall be made operational by the Borrower,
through MSP, no later than the date specified in a timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be presented to the Bank, by the
Borrower through MSP, no later than March 30, 1993.

      Section 3.14. By no later than December 15, 1993 in the case
of the studies referred to in Part D.4 (b) and (c) of the Project,
December 31, 1994 in the case of the study referred to in Part D.4
(a) of the Project and December 31, 1995 in the case of the study
referred to in Part D.4 (d) of the Project, the Borrower, through
MSP, shall carry out, and present to the Bank the results of, the
studies referred to in Part D.4 of the Project. The Borrower,
through MSP, shall, by no later than three months after presenting
each of such results to the Bank, present to the Bank plans of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing the recom-
mendations of such studies and shall thereafter carry out such plans
of action in accordance with their terms.

      Section 3.15. The Borrower shall coordinate implementation of
the Project through the PCU, to be maintained in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank throughout Project execution and to
include: (a) a Project Coordinator; (b) a Technical/Operational
Director assisted by four specialists, one for health care and
nutrition, one for basic sanitation, one for institutional
development and one for physical infrastructure; (c) an
Administrative/Financial Director assisted by two specialists, one
for administration and one for accounting; and (d) no more than five
field work consultants. In staffing the PCU, the Borrower, through
MSP, shall comply with the timetable referred to in Section 7.01 (c)
of this Agreement. For purposes of Part C.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause the PCU to be advised by a committee consisting
of representatives from MSP, MINFIN, IEOS, CONADE and MBS.

      Section 3.16. (a) At the end of every six-month period during
Project implementation, beginning with the period concluding on
December 31, 1992, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall present to
the Bank a progress report on implementation of the Project based on
the performance indicators referred to in the indicators letter from
the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith. Such reports shall
be consolidated into an annual report covering the preceding twelve
months, to be presented to the Bank no later than July 31 of each
year during Project implementation (beginning July 31, 1993).

      (b)   The Borrower, through MSP and MINFIN and together with
IEOS and CRM, shall participate in annual reviews of Project
implementation to be held in conjunction with the Bank in the third
quarter of each calendar year during Project implementation,
beginning in 1993. Each such review shall, based on the reports



referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, examine the status of
Project implementation and conclude with the finalization of an
annual plan of action satisfactory to the Bank, including specific
goals and projections for Project implementation for the immediately
upcoming twelve months. Each such annual plan of action shall be
carried out, or caused to be carried out, by the Borrower during the
twelve months immediately subsequent to its finalization.

      (c)   Each annual review referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section shall also examine MSP’s budget. Each annual plan of action
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section shall include a
commitment by the Borrower to present to the Congress of Ecuador an
MSP budget, for the immediately upcoming fiscal year, designed to
cover the Borrower’s obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement. In no case shall the Borrower present to the Congress of
Ecuador any budgets wherein the amount allocated for MSP is less
than the amount expended by MSP in 1991 or is less than required by
MSP if it opts to expand services similar to those covered by the
Project to areas other than the Health Service Areas.

      Section 3.17. As part of the annual reports referred to in
Section 3.16 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the PCU,
shall provide the Bank with the following statistical data, compiled
and presented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the
twelve-month period covered by the annual reports: (a) deaths of
infants under one year of age per 1,000 live births in each Health
Service Area; (b) maternal deaths, as a result of pregnancy,
childbirth or post-partum difficulties, per 10,000 live births in
each Health Service Area; and (c) percent of children under three
years of age in each Health Service Area and of pregnant women in
each Health Service Area deemed malnourished according to the
criteria employed under Part B.2 (a) of the Project. The Borrower,
through MSP, shall exert its best efforts to reduce infant and
maternal mortality rates in Health Service Areas by 10% by the third
quarter of 1996 and by 15% by the completion of the Project, as
compared to such rates in effect for 1991. The Borrower, through
MSP, shall likewise exert its best efforts to bring the percent of
children under three years of age and of pregnant women in Health
Service Areas who are malnourished to 35% by the third quarter of
1996 and to 25% by the completion of the Project.

      Section 3.18. (a) During the annual review scheduled to be
held in 1995, special emphasis shall be placed on examining the
effectiveness of the Project in contributing towards the achievement
of the goals specified in Section 3.17 of this Agreement, taking
into account for purposes of such examination, inter alia, the
results of Project impact evaluations to be undertaken, pursuant to
Part D.3 (b) of the Project, by the Borrower, through MSP, in time
for such 1995 annual review. The annual plans of action finalized as
part of the annual review held in 1995 shall include measures to be
taken by the Borrower as a result of such examination.

      (b)   Also during the annual review scheduled to be held in
1995, special emphasis shall be placed on comparing the
effectiveness of Execution Models 1, 2, 3 and 4 in carrying out Part
C.1 of the Project, taking into account for purposes of such
comparison the results of an evaluation, to be carried out by the
Borrower and presented to the Bank by June 1, 1995, of the
experience under the Project with such Execution Models. The annual
plans of action finalized as part of the annual review held in 1995
shall include measures to be taken by the Borrower as a result of
such comparison.

      Section 3.19. The Borrower, through MSP, shall enter into each
of the IEOS and CRM Agreements and, except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any
provisions of such Agreements. The Borrower shall exercise its
rights under each such Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.

      Section 3.20. Each of the IEOS and CRM Agreements shall be for



a three-year term renewable only depending on the results of the
comparison referred to in Section 3.18 (b) of this Agreement and
shall contain provisions whereby IEOS and CRM, respectively, shall:

      (a)   maintain their records, accounts and financial
statements and allow them to be audited as set forth in Section 4.01
of this Agreement, and shall assist the Borrower as necessary for
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under said Section 4.01;

      (b)   comply with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;

      (c)   carry out, or cause to be carried out, the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions with regard to those Parts of the Project carried
out by them; and

      (d)   participate in the annual reviews referred to in Section
3.16 (b) of this Agreement and carry out their obligations specified
in the resulting plans of action.

      Section 3.21. The Borrower shall enter into contracts,
satisfactory to the Bank, with procurement agents (in a manner
consistent with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) to
assist in the procurement of goods and works required for the
Project, in the contracting of consultants and services required for
the Project and in the management of training and technical
assistance under Part C.1 (d) of the Project. The Borrower shall
rely on such agents for all such procurement and contracting (except
for the contracting of auditors and the procurement undertaken by
MSP facilities with the funds referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of
this Agreement, by CEMEIM pursuant to Part A.3 (a) of the Project
and by Provincial Directorates and CRM of works pursuant to Part C.2
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement).

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained three sets of records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
One set, maintained by MSP, shall apply to the entire Project. The
remaining sets, one maintained by IEOS and another by CRM, shall
each apply respectively to the Part of the Project carried out by
the entity in question.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, and those for the
                   Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
                   in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
                   ciples consistently applied, by independent
                   private auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:



            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,                   
records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      (d)   The report of the auditors referred to in paragraph (b)
(ii) of this Section shall include an opinion as to: (i) compliance
with the cost recovery obligations set forth in Sections 3.08 (a),
3.12 (a) (vi) and 3.12 (c) (iii) of this Agreement; and (ii)
compliance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                          Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each of IEOS and CRM:

      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;

      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
environmental practices, as applicable, under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers; and

      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
environmental practices.

                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   IEOS or CRM shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the IEOS or CRM Agreement, respectively;

      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that IEOS or CRM will be able to
perform its obligations under the IEOS or CRM Agreement,
respectively;

      (c)   the charter, regulations or other documents whereby IEOS



or CRM was created or is governed shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of IEOS or
CRM to perform any of its obligations under the IEOS or CRM
Agreement, respectively;

      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of IEOS or CRM or for the suspension of its operations;

      (e)   the Congress of Ecuador shall have failed to enact into
law any of the MSP budgets presented by the Borrower in compliance
with Section 3.16 (c) of this Agreement; and

      (f)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of the UNDP Grant shall have been
                   suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                   in part, pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Grant
                   Agreement;

           (ii)    subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under the UNDP Grant
                   Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) or (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the IEOS and CRM Agreements shall have all been
entered into;

      (b)   that the UNDP Grant Agreement shall have been entered
into and the conditions for the first disbursement of the UNDP Grant
shall have been fulfilled;

      (c)   that a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for filling
the positions in the PCU (other than the Project Coordinator,
Technical/Operational Director and Administrative/Financial Director
already in place) listed in Section 3.15 of this Agreement, shall
have been presented to the Bank; and

      (d)   that the contracts with procurement agents, referred to
in Section 3.21 of this Agreement, shall have been entered into.

      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:



      (a)   on behalf of the Borrower, that each of the IEOS and CRM
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and are legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms; and

      (b)   on behalf of each of IEOS and CRM, that the IEOS and CRM
Agreements, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, IEOS and CRM, as the case
may be, and are legally binding upon each of them in accordance with
their terms.

      Section 7.03. The date May 10, 1993 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Finanzas y Cr�dito P�blico
            Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
            Quito, Ecuador

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MINFINANZAS              22358 MINFIN-ED
                   Quito, Ecuador

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                         By /s/ Edgar Ter�n
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                         By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works              9,000,000        60%

(2)   Equipment               11,000,000        100% of foreign
      and furniture                             expenditures,
      (except for                               100% of local
      training materials                        expenditures
      and equipment)                            (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

(3)   Vehicles                 1,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Medicine and medical     5,000,000          100% until
    supplies                                    the withdrawals
                                                under this Cate-
                                                gory have reached
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount equivalent
                                                to $1,200,000;
                                                then 60% until
                                                such withdrawals
                                                have reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $4,000,000; and
                                                20% thereafter

(5) Technical and           14,000,000          100%
    procurement
    assistance, studies,
    audits and training

(6) Incremental             12,500,000          100% until
    operation and                               the with-
    maintenance costs                           drawals under
                                                this Category
                                                have reached an



                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $2,500,000; then
                                                60% until such
                                                withdrawals have
                                                reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $10,000,000; and
                                                20% thereafter

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(7) Food under               2,000,000          100% until
    Part B.1 (d)                                the with-
    of the Project                              rawals under
                                                this Category
                                                have reached
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $500,000; then
                                                60% until such
                                                withdrawals
                                                have reached
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $1,500,000; and
                                                20% thereafter

(8) Incentives               3,500,000          100%

(9) Promotional              1,500,000          100%
    campaigns under
    Parts A.2 (c)
    and B.3 (b) of
    the Project

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(10)Refunding of Project     1,072,000          Amounts due
    Preparation Advance                         pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02
                                                (c) of this
                                                Agreement

(11)Unallocated              8,928,000
                            __________

    TOTAL                   70,000,000
                            ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 24, 1992.

3.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "incremental operation and maintenance costs"
means operation and maintenance costs (except as pertain to training
as described in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, to Parts A.2
(c), B.1 (b)-(e), and B.3 (b) of the Project and to operation and
maintenance by Juntas of water supply facilities under Part C.1 (a)-



(b) of the Project) which would not have been incurred absent the
Project and includes, inter alia, costs with respect to: (i)
maintenance of MSP facilities in Health Service Areas under Part A.1
of the Project; (ii) maintenance and operation of vehicles,
equipment and other goods procured under the Project and covered by
Categories (2) and (3) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule;
(iii) salaries paid to MSP staff hired for purposes of the Project
to occupy the maximum of 1,600 staff positions referred to in
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; (iv) remuneration for MSP staff, not
hired for purposes of the Project, for work done for the Project
which is not covered by their salaries; and (v) consumable office
supplies;

      (b)   the term "training" covers costs for: (i) scholarships
for trainees; (ii) training materials and equipment; (iii)
consumable office supplies procured for purposes of the training
components of Parts A.2 (b), A.2 (d), A.3 (b), B.3 (a), C.1 (d), D.1
(b), D.2 (b), D.3 (c) and D.5 (d) of the Project; and (iv) rea-
sonable transportation and per diem expenditures incurred by IEOS
and MSP trainers in travelling to rural communities for purposes of
Parts A.2 (d) and C.1 (d) of the Project;

      (c)   the term "incentives" covers one-time-only redeployment
bonus payments to MSP staff, other than staff occupying the maximum
of 1,600 new positions referred to in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement, which are redeployed pursuant to said Section 3.07;

      (d)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (e)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand public basic
health care, nutrition and sanitation services, and improve already
existing public basic health care services, for the poorest sectors
of the population in Ecuador; and (b) achieve institutional
strengthening of the public entities involved in the delivery of
such services.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Basic Health Care

1.    (a)   Construction, equipping, furnishing and maintenance of
approximately 75 new health subcenters (designed to provide basic
outpatient services) and approximately 13 new health centers
(designed to provide more advanced outpatient services) distributed
among Health Service Areas; (b) equipping, upgrading, rehabili-
tation, repair and maintenance of approximately 130 existing health
subcenters, approximately nine existing health centers and approxi-
mately seven existing hospitals distributed among Health Service
Areas; and (c) equipping and maintenance of approximately 12
existing hospitals, distributed among Health Service Areas, which do
not require upgrading, rehabilitation or repair.

2.    (a)   Operation of MSP facilities in Health Service Areas on
the basis of a basic health care services delivery model which
emphasizes the provision of preventative services at the community
level to family units; (b) training of staff of such MSP facilities
in techniques necessary for the proper implementation of such
services delivery model; (c) implementation of a mass media campaign
to disseminate information regarding such services delivery model to



its potential beneficiaries; and (d) training of beneficiaries of
Part C.1 (a)-(c) of the Project in sound domestic water use and
waste disposal practices.

3.    (a)   Provision of generic medicines and basic medical
supplies (including contraceptives) to MSP facilities in Health
Service Areas for use in treating patients served by such
facilities; (b) provision of technical assistance and training to
MSP and CEMEIM staff on stock management, warehousing, distribution,
accounting, procurement and cost recovery techniques associated with
supplying generic medicines and basic medical supplies; and (c)
carrying out of studies to (i) assess the feasibility of alternative
procurement and distribution methods for medicines and medical
supplies for MSP facilities and (ii) compare the costs and benefits
of market pricing versus price controls as applied to the sale of
medicines by MSP facilities to their patients.

Part B:     Nutrition

1.    (a)   Provision, through MSP facilities in Health Service
Areas, of nutritional counselling to the populations served by such
facilities (with particular emphasis on the provision to women of
information on proper breast-feeding practices); (b) provision,
through MSP facilities in Health Service Areas, of food supplements
(a mixture of powdered milk and corn meal) to children under three
years of age and to pregnant and lactating women in Health Service
Areas; (c) provision, through MSP facilities in Health Service
Areas, of micronutrients (iron, folic acid and vitamin C) or, if
feasible, of a mixture of powdered milk and corn meal fortified with
such micronutrients, to children between the ages of six months and
36 months and to pregnant and lactating women in Health Service
Areas; (d) provision, through MSP facilities in Health Service
Areas, of rice, beans, oil, a mixture of powdered milk and corn meal
or other basic foods to children between the ages of six months and
36 months and to pregnant and lactating women in Health Service
Areas, only for such periods of time as they are deemed malnourished
as revealed through the growth monitoring and nutritional evaluation
performed under Part B.2 (a) of the Project; and (e) provision,
through MSP facilities throughout Ecuador, of powdered milk to
malnourished children under six months of age whose mothers are
unable to breast-feed.

2.    (a)   Routine growth monitoring and nutritional evaluation
(based on weight to age comparisons in the case of children and
height to weight comparisons in the case of women), carried out in
MSP facilities in Health Service Areas, of the pregnant and
lactating women and under three-year old children segments of the
population served by such facilities; and (b) monitoring of anemia
status in all pregnant women and children under two years of age in
Health Service Areas.

3.    (a)   Training of staff of MSP facilities of Health Service
Areas in the proper dissemination of nutritional information
(including breast-feeding information) to the population served by
such facilities; and (b) implementation of a mass media campaign to
disseminate information regarding proper nutritional practices
(including proper breast-feeding practices) to the general public.

Part C:     Basic Sanitation and Safe Water

1.    Implementation of a pilot program to provide sanitation and
safe water facilities, to rural areas in Health Service Areas in the
provinces of Azuay, Chimborazo, Guayas, Loja, Manabò and Pichincha,
through: (a) construction, operation and maintenance of latrines
(approximately 27,500) and water supply facilities for 165 com-
munities of between 250 and 2,000 inhabitants each; (b) upgrading,
operation and maintenance of 42 existing water supply facilities;
(c) establishment and operation of a water supply facilities
maintenance center in each of the cited provinces; and (d) provision
of training and technical assistance to IEOS and CRM staff and to
Juntas on techniques (including cost recovery techniques) for the
proper execution of this Part of the Project.



2.    (a)   Carrying out of studies on institutional restructuring
of the rural water and sanitation sector and on the feasibility of,
and methods for, obtaining payment for construction, operation and
maintenance of water supply facilities from their rural bene-
ficiaries; and (b) preparation of a national inventory of rural
water supply and basic sanitation facilities.

Part D:     Institutional Strengthening

1.    (a)   Provision of technical assistance to assess MSP’s
central, provincial and local level organization and administrative
processes, design reforms (including legal reforms) required to
achieve a decentralized provision of MSP services and develop and
put to use administrative and operational instruments, procedures,
norms and manuals in support of such decentralization; and (b)
training of relevant MSP staff on how to implement such
decentralization.

2.    (a)   Design and operation, with technical assistance, of a
budget programming system for MSP so as to allow more efficient
allocation and use of MSP resources; and (b) training of relevant
MSP, MINFIN and CONADE staff on the proper use of such system.

3.    (a)   Design and operation, with technical assistance, of a
management information system for MSP; (b) use of such system (in
cooperation with INEM) to monitor the Project and conduct Project
impact evaluations; and (c) training of relevant MSP staff on the
proper use of such system.

4.    Carrying out of studies regarding: (a) feasibility and impact
of, and methods for, obtaining cost recovery from beneficiaries for
health services provided by MSP; (b) effectiveness and physical and
administrative rehabilitation of MSP’s hospital network; (c) methods
for improving inter-institutional coordination between MSP and IESS
in the delivery of health services; and (d) impact evaluation of MSP
basic health care programs.

5.    Development and implementation of a human resources program
within MSP through: (a) identification and implementation of MSP
staff reassignments, other than those required for Part A.2 (a) of
the Project, as needed for the efficient operation of MSP; (b)
development and implementation of personnel management systems; (c)
development and implementation of sound salary scales conducive to
the attraction and retention of qualified health services and
administrative personnel; and (d) in-service or continuing education
training for MSP managerial, administrative and financial staff to
upgrade their skills.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 1998                           1,275,000
July 15, 1998                              1,325,000
January 15, 1999                           1,375,000
July 15, 1999                              1,430,000
January 15, 2000                           1,485,000
July 15, 2000                              1,545,000
January 15, 2001                           1,605,000
July 15, 2001                              1,665,000
January 15, 2002                           1,730,000
July 15, 2002                              1,795,000
January 15, 2003                           1,865,000



July 15, 2003                              1,935,000
January 15, 2004                           2,010,000
July 15, 2004                              2,090,000
January 15, 2005                           2,170,000
July 15, 2005                              2,255,000
January 15, 2006                           2,340,000
July 15, 2006                              2,430,000
January 15, 2007                           2,525,000
July 15, 2007                              2,625,000
January 15, 2008                           2,725,000
July 15, 2008                              2,830,000
January 15, 2009                           2,940,000
July 15, 2009                              3,055,000
January 15, 2010                           3,170,000
July 15, 2010                              3,295,000
January 15, 2011                           3,420,000
July 15, 2011                              3,555,000
January 15, 2012                           3,690,000
July 15, 2012                              3,845,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding



1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods or works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
more than $1,500,000 in the case of works and $200,000 in the case
of goods.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Section, goods manufactured in Ecuador
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or
less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $12,000,000;

      (b)   printing of training materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000 minus the aggregate
cost amount procured under paragraph 2 (b) of this Part; and

      (c)   goods (except medicine) estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $11,300,000 (of which no more than
$5,400,000 shall apply to medical supplies); and

      (d)   food under Part B.1 (d) of the Project.

2.    The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank:

      (a)   works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $5,000,000;

      (b)   printing of training materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000; and

      (c)   goods (except medicine) estimated to cost the equivalent
of $25,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,500,000 (of which no more than
$1,000,000 shall apply to medical supplies).

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part
A.1 of this Section; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $500,000; and (iii) the first two
contracts for new health center construction, the first two
contracts for repair, upgrading, maintenance or rehabilitation of
health centers or hospitals, the first two contracts for office
furniture or equipment and the first two contracts for medical



supplies, each procured under Part C.1 of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Part E:     Use of Standard Documents

      All procurement of goods and works to which international or
local competitive bidding applies shall be carried out using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower, IEOS and CRM in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" (the "Consultants Guidelines") published
by the Bank in August 1981.

Section III.  Special Provisions

A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:

      1.    Bids must be submitted in one single envelope, and the
name of each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any
alternative proposals, if they have been requested or permitted,
shall be read aloud when opened.

      2.    Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local
representative for purposes of submitting bids, but may be required
to have such a representative upon entering into contracts which
they have been awarded.

      3.    Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their
financial solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the
Borrower, IEOS or CRM without recertification by any Ecuadorean bank
or other Ecuadorean person or entity.

      4.    Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by
foreign sureties approved by the Borrower, IEOS or CRM must be
admissible without recertification or other participation by any
Ecuadorean bank or other Ecuadorean person or entity.

      5.    Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or



provider of services must not be required to be counter-guaranteed
by such supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not
prevent purchasers from obtaining other performance warranties from
suppliers.

B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods,
printing and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this
Schedule:

      1.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to
bid on all contracts.

      2.    The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date
which shall be at least thirty days from the date of the last
advertisement of the invitation to bid.

      3.    The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least
three days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.

      4.    Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
in accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.

C.    In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:

      1.    Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection process,
but may be required to be so registered, at the time of contracting,
if the Borrower, IEOS or CRM and the Bank so agree.

      2.    Foreign consultants must not be required, either
directly or indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any
consulting contracts to any local firm or person, except in con-
nection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient
number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to
allow a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the
contribution of either party to the joint venture arrangement will
not be constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of partici-
pation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to
associate itself with any specific named domestic firms or
individual consultants.

      3.    Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a
condition to provide services in Ecuador under contracts to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to be registered in
Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for
Ecuadorean firms.

      4.    Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms,
providing services under contracts financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadorean
Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for
Ecuadorean consultants.

D.    Notwithstanding Article 2 (as amended by Law 112 published in
the Borrower’s Registro Oficial on January 28, 1991) of Law 95
published in the Borrower’s Registro Oficial on August 16, 1990,
Article 58 of said Law 95 shall apply to all procurement of medicine
and medical supplies to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

Section IV.  Internal Approvals

      The approval by the Contralor General del Estado (National
Controller General) and the Procurador General del Estado (National
Attorney General) referred to in Article 18 of Law 95 published in
the Borrower’s Registro Oficial on August 16, 1990, shall be limited
to the standard bidding documents referred to in Section I, Part E



of this Schedule.

                             SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this



Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after andto the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.