World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3600 POL

                          Loan Agreement

               (Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated September 8, 1993

                                             LOAN NUMBER 3600 POL

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 16,
1992, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower’s agricultural sector (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;

      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require
assistance in the implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan (as
hereinafter defined); and

      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

            "’Project’ means the imports, debt reduction operations
      and other activities that may be financed out of the proceeds
      of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
      Loan Agreement.";

      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      Program and the Debt Reduction Plan referred to in the
      Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
      the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
      the Loan.";

      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);

      (b)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means a plan of the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at reducing the Borrower’s payments
of principal, interest and other charges on external loans from non-
official creditors; and

      (c)   "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank regarding the use of
part of the proceeds of the Loan in the carrying out of the Debt
Reduction Plan, referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the



Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."



      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) National Bank of Poland is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.

     (b)    Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts National Bank of Poland with responsibility
for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE III

                       Particular Covenants

      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A and, if so
determined under Section 3.05 of this Agreement, Part B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate commercial, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall submit a plan for the
reduction of its payments of principal, interest and other charges
under loans from non-official external creditors. If in the
exclusive opinion of the Bank such plan meets the requirements for
Bank support of debt reduction operations, the Borrower and the Bank
shall seek to conclude an agreement (the Implementation Agreement)
providing for the use of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Category (2) in the table of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in the execution of the plan.

      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.

      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall strengthen the principal
agencies of the Borrower involved in the implementation of the
Program through the implementation of an action plan as set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement. To that end, the Borrower will make
adequate administrative arrangements to coordinate the employment
and activities of consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b)  The Borrower shall:



            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                            ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03



of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerstwo Rolnictwa
              i Gospodarki Zywnosciowej
            ul. Wspolna 30
            00-930 Warszawa
            Republic of Poland

                                           Telex:

                                             814597

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                         By /s/ Jacek Janiszewski
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.



2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   112                --          Alcoholic beverages

   121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                  refuse

   122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)

   525                --          Radioactive and
                                  associated materials

   667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                  semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                  worked

   718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                  parts thereof, fuel elements
                                  (cartridges), nonirradiated for
                                  nuclear reactors

   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery

   Group           Subgroup       Description of Items

   897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals
                                  (except watches and watch cases)
                                  and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                  wares (including set gems)

   971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)

      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $60,000,000, may be made on account of payments for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1992;

      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $25,000 equivalent;

      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;

      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and

      (g)   expenditures for services in excess of an aggregate
amount equivalent to $10,000,000

3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $3,500,000 may be
required by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.

4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered



into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $100,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program
and with the continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework
consistent with the objectives thereof, as determined on the basis
of indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, and (b) that
the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
taken and are satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within
90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved
progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Loan or any part thereof.

                           SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are the carrying out the Program
to achieve the structural adjustment of the Borrower’s agricultural
sector and, if so determined under Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
to improve the Borrower’s external debt situation by the
implementation of an external debt reduction program.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Imports

      Financing of urgently needed imports required during the
execution of the Project.

Part B:     Debt Reduction Plan

      Implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan which, in the judgment
of the Borrower and of the Bank, shall meet the requirements of the
Bank’s support of debt reduction.

                             *   *   *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

November 15, 1997                          7,045,000
May 15, 1998                               7,310,000
November 15, 1998                          7,580,000
May 15, 1999                               7,860,000
November 15, 1999                          8,155,000
May 15, 2000                               8,455,000
November 15, 2000                          8,770,000
May 15, 2001                               9,095,000
November 15, 2001                          9,435,000
May 15, 2002                               9,785,000
November 15, 2002                         10,150,000
May 15, 2003                              10,525,000
November 15, 2003                         10,915,000
May 15, 2004                              11,320,000



November 15, 2004                         11,745,000
May 15, 2005                              12,180,000
November 15, 2005                         12,630,000
May 15, 2006                              13,100,000
November 15, 2006                         13,590,000
May 15, 2007                              14,090,000
November 15, 2007                         14,615,000
May 15, 2008                              15,160,000
November 15, 2008                         15,720,000
May 15, 2009                              16,305,000
November 15, 2009                         16,910,000
May 15, 2010                              17,555,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

                            Procurement

1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:

      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s



      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower’s country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:

            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or

           (ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or

          (iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
                   and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                   that are potential suppliers of the goods
                   required."

      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."

      (c)     Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

2.    Procurement of pesticides shall be consistent with guidelines
for use and selection of pesticides agreed with the Bank.

3.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded in accordance
with established commercial practice, provided that such contracts
shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries,
except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may
be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines.

4.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 3 and
4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.

7.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.

8.    Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World



Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement

1.    The Borrower’s budget for 1993 for support for the
intervention activities of the Agency for Agricultural Marketing
shall not exceed in percentage terms the 1991 amount by more than
one-half of the rate of inflation contained in the budgetary
assumptions of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and an
operational audit has been completed on the operations of the said
Agency, including an evaluation of its efforts in promoting private
sector agricultural trading activities and recommending measures to
improve its functions.

2.    Satisfactory progress in the implementation of three agreed
upon subsector privatization programs.

3.    Preparation of measures, accompanying the privatization
programs under paragraph 2 hereof, related to: (a) trade and price
policy; (b) antitrust subsectoral guidelines for the Borrower’s
Anti-Monopoly Office; (c) public investment program implications;
and (d) research and training programs.

4.    Adoption of the Borrower’s budget for 1994 which shall reflect
appropriate economic, financial and institutional criteria for
public investment in agriculture.

5.    Satisfactory progress in the implementation of a suitable
organizational restructuring program for the Borrower’s Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Economy and related agencies.

6.    Establishment of an interagency agricultural subcommittee
within the Committee for Scientific Research under terms of
reference.

                            SCHEDULE 6

               Action Plan in Support of the Program

1.    Audit, reorganization of the bookkeeping and accounting
procedures, and risk audit of the Agency for Agricultural Markets.

2.    Establishment of monitoring capability of Polish access to
foreign agricultural markets.

3.    A study of effective protection of the Polish food processing
industry.

4.    Development of improved management of the public investment
program in the agricultural sector.

5.    Restructuring of public agencies in charge of standards,
inspection, food quality and consumer protection and privatization
of a selected number of these agencies.

6.    Development of an environmental protection program for the
food processing industry.

7.    Preparation of a master plan for the development of wholesale
marketing and commodities exchanges of agricultural products.

8.    Rural infrastructure: training in project preparation,
evaluation and financing.

9.    Rural development: assistance to gminas in formulating and
implementing local development and space use plan and promotion of
micro-enterprises.

10.   Technical support to the regional offices of the Agricultural



Property Agency.

11.   Restructuring agricultural education, research and extension
support for the Inter-Agency Coordinating Sub-committee.

12.   A study for the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Economy.

13.   A pilot program on quality management in the dairy subsector.