World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3546 RU

                          Loan Agreement

         (Privatization Implementation Assistance Project)

                              between

                      THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated May 15, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3546 RU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1993, between THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has undertaken a set of interrelated
measures intended to facilitate the transition to a market-oriented
economy, including a program for the privatization of state-owned
and municipal enterprises (the State Privatization Program, as
defined in this Agreement);

      (B)   in order to facilitate access to certain professional
skills, international experience and technical expertise in the
areas of privatization policy and business development, the Borrower
entered into a program of technical cooperation with the Bank and
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) (the TC
Program);

      (C)   in furtherance of the aims of the State Privatization
Program and the TC Program, the Borrower wishes to continue and, in
particular, to expand access to certain professional skills,

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



international experience and technical expertise in the areas
defined by the TC Program and in other areas, along with related
equipment and other implementation resources, by means of the
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project);

      (D)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, intends to obtain financing
for the Project partly from external sources, and has thereto
requested the Bank to assist in providing such financing;

      (E)   the Borrower likewise intends to obtain financing for
the Project from the EBRD, on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the EBRD;

      (F)   the Borrower has confirmed the establishment of the
Privatization Center of the Russian Federation (the Privatization
Center), pursuant to Decree No. 716 of the President of the Borrower
of November 23, 1992 and the Founders’ Agreement dated October 20,
1992, and intends to appoint the Privatization Center as its
executing agency to carry out Parts A and B of the Project with the
Borrower’s assistance in accordance with subsidiary project
management arrangements to be concluded by the Borrower with the
Privatization Center, as provided in this Agreement; and

      (G)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower through its Working Center for Economic Reform (WCER); and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Privatization
Center;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Privatization Center of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated July 31, 1992 and August 20, 1992
between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;



      (d)   "Privatization Center" means the Privatization Center
of the Russian Federation, a state foundation established by the
Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 716 of the President of the Borrower
of November 23, 1992 and the Founders’ Agreement dated October 20,
1992;

      (e)   "State Privatization Program" means the State Program
of Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises of the Borrower
for 1992, adopted pursuant to Resolution No. 2980-1 of the Supreme
Soviet of the Borrower of June 11, 1992, and includes any subsequent
state privatization programs which shall be adopted by the Borrower,
during the execution of the Project, for any other years with which
the Project is concerned, and any implementing legislation and
regulations issued by agencies of the Borrower which shall be
necessary for the implementation of such programs;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements" means the
agreements, decisions or other written arrangements governing the
relationship between the Borrower and the Privatization Center,
which shall have been concluded pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, including any amendments to such arrangements as may be
made from time to time;

      (g)   "the GKI-FPF Operational Coordination Agreement" means
the agreement between GKI and FPF dated October 28, 1992, defining
organizational measures for the coordination of operational work and
division of responsibilities for implementation of the State
Privatization Program, as the same may be amended or superseded from
time to time by other operational coordination agreements between
FPF and GKI, in compliance with Article 15(6) of the Borrower’s Law
on the Privatization of State and Municipal Enterprises of July 3,
1991, as amended, under which such agreements are required to be
entered into annually by FPF with GKI and MKIs;

      (h)   "Statutes" means the founding statutes, act, decision,
charter, articles of incorporation and bylaws, memorandum and
articles of association, or other similar instrument of the
Privatization Center, including any agreement among the founders or
shareholders thereof and any legislation upon which such Statutes
are based, as the same may have been amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (i)   "GKI" means the State Committee of the Borrower for the
Management of State Property, and includes any territorial branches
of such state committee as may be established under Article 4(1) of
the Borrower’s Law on the Privatization of State and Municipal
Enterprises of July 3, 1991;

      (j)   "MKIs" means state committees, other than GKI,
established for the management of state property, including such
state committees as may be established pursuant to Article 5 (1) of
the Borrower’s Law on the Privatization of State and Municipal
Enterprises of July 3, 1991 by local soviets of peoples deputies of
the political and administrative subdivisions of the Borrower for
the management of state and municipal property under the
jurisdiction of such political and administrative subdivisions; and

      (k)   "FPF" means the Federal Property Fund of the Borrower,
established pursuant to Decree No. 1533-7 of the Supreme Soviet of
the Borrower of July 3, 1991.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety million dollars ($90,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.



      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:



                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
            in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with the
assistance of the Privatization Center with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this
purpose.

      Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   cause the Privatization Center to perform in accordance
with the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Project Management
Arrangements and the Statutes, all the obligations and activities
of the Privatization Center therein set forth which may affect the
Project; and take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Privatization Center to
perform such obligations; and not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and

      (b)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Project
Management Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank, to comply with the provisions of this
Agreement, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements or any
provision thereof.

      Section 3.03. For purposes of implementing the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into subsidiary project management
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Privatization
Center, whereby the Privatization Center shall be appointed
executing agent of the Borrower for carrying out such activities
under the Project and obligations of the Borrower as shall have been
specified therein and in respect of which the Borrower shall have
made all necessary provision, including, inter alia:

            (a)    the carrying out by the Privatization Center of



                   Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence
                   and efficiency and in conformity with
                   appropriate practices and in accordance with the
                   GKI-FPF Operational Coordination Agreement and
                   the applicable provisions of the Schedule to the
                   Project Agreement;

            (b)    the carrying out by the Privatization Center of
                   the procurement and related accounting for the
                   goods and consultants’ services required for the
                   Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
                   of the Loan;

            (c)    the utilization of funds by the Privatization
                   Center, including the proceeds of the Loan,
                   required for the support of the operations of
                   the Privatization Center undertaken in
                   accordance with subparagraphs (a) and (b) of
                   this Section, and the manner of effecting
                   compliance with the obligations of the Borrower
                   under Section 4.01 of this Agreement in respect
                   of the expenditures to be made with such funds;
                   and

            (d)    the establishment and continuous operation by
                   the Privatization Center of all facilities
                   necessary for the appropriate administration of
                   Project activities and related management
                   functions undertaken by the Privatization Center
                   in accordance with subparagraphs (a), (b) and
                   (c) of this Section.

      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause
to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Programs set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Part
C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B of
the Project shall be carried out by the Privatization Center
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

      Section 3.07. After the earlier of June 30, 1994, or when
fifty percent of the Loan amount, as described in Section 2.01 of
this Agreement, has been disbursed, the Borrower and the Bank shall
conduct a comprehensive review, using criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, of the progress in implementing the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, with the appropriate assistance of
the Privatization Center as shall have been set forth in the
Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements:



            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain or cause to be retained, until at least
                   one year after the Bank has received the audit
                   report for the fiscal year in which the last
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                   of the Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;

          (iii)    ensure access by the Bank’s representatives to
                   the appropriate facilities for purposes of
                   examining such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The Privatization Center shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Project Management Arrangements.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Privatization Center will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements.

      (c)   The Statutes of the Privatization Center or the GKI-FPF
Operational Coordination Agreement or the State Privatization
Program shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Privatization Center to perform any of its obligations under the



Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Privatization Center or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   The Privatization Center shall have become unable to pay
its debts as they mature, or any action or proceeding shall have
been taken by the Privatization Center or by others acting under
official claim of right or having a cause of action against the
Privatization Center, whereby any of the assets of the Privatization
Center shall or may be distributed among its creditors in accordance
with legislation of the Borrower pertaining to instances of
insolvency.

      (f)   The Privatization Center shall have taken any of the
actions specified in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, so as
to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial
condition of the Privatization Center or its ability to carry out
the Project or perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements.

      (g)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the EBRD Loan shall have been
                         suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                         thereof, or

                   (B)   the EBRD Loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements have been
duly concluded by the Borrower and the Privatization Center,
respectively, by all necessary governmental and corporate action;



      (b)   the EBRD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered,
and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EBRD Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement; and

      (c)   that the persons selected for the positions of chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, chief procurement
officer, chief operating officer, and manager for vouchers and
capital markets of the Privatization Center have been appointed in
accordance with the Implementation Program annexed as the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Privatization Center, and is legally binding upon
the Privatization Center in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements have
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Privatization Center and constitute valid and legally binding
obligations of the Borrower and the Privatization Center,
respectively, enforceable in accordance with their terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The First Deputy Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            103097 Moscow
            Ilyinka Street 9
            Russian Federation

                                           Telex:

                                             112008

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United



States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                         By /s/ Anatoly Chubais
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Ernest Stern
                                                 Managing Director

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Computers, equip-                           100% of foreign
    ment and materials:                         expenditures,
                                                100% of local
    (a)  under Part B.1          300,000
         expenditures
         of the Project                         (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
    (b)  under Part B.6        9,000,000        of local expen-
         of the Project                         ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally

(2) Consultants’                                100%
    services and
    training:

    (a)  under Part A          3,000,000
         of the Project

    (b)  under Part B.1          900,000
         of the Project

    (c)  under Part B.2       10,500,000
         of the Project

    (d)  under Part B.3        3,500,000
         of the Project

    (e)  under Part B.4       29,000,000
         of the Project

    (f)  under Part B.5        9,000,000
         of the Project

    (g)  under Part C of       7,000,000
         the Project



(3) Media time and space       8,500,000        100%

(4) Incremental Operating
    Costs of the Privati-
    zation Center under
    Part B.1 of the Project:

    (a)  Long-Term Experts     1,200,000        100%
         not domiciled in
         Russia

    (b)  Other Incremental
         Operating Costs

         (i)   For 1993        1,500,000        75% of local
                                                expenditures

         (ii)  For 1994        1,900,000        60% of local
                                                expenditures

         (iii) For 1995        1,200,000        40% of local
                                                expenditures

(5) Refunding                  1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (b)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement

(6) Unallocated                2,000,000
                               _________

         TOTAL                90,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";

      (c)   "Incremental Operating Costs" comprises salaries and
benefits of staff payable within a range for each position
acceptable to the Bank, utility charges at a rate not to exceed the
rate in domestic prices payable by comparable organizations,
locally-procured office equipment and supplies, costs payable in
connection with maintenance of facilities, insurance, and other
ordinary and necessary costs payable by the Privatization Center
that would be payable by entities similarly situated on the
territory of the Borrower and customarily regarded as a cost of
doing business, including administrative costs such as travel
allowances; and

      (d)   "Subproject" means any grant of resources or program of
technical assistance arranged by the Privatization Center which
involves the provision of goods, services, or other facilities
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Recipient for purposes
of carrying out the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;



      (b)   payments made for expenditures under Category (4) of
this Schedule prior to the adoption by the Privatization Center of
the annual operating budget described in Section 4.02 of the Project
Agreement for 1993;

      (c)   payments made for rental of office space or for
expenditures relating to the obtaining of any such office space by
the Privatization Center under Category (4) of this Schedule;

      (d)   payments for any Subproject under Category (2) (e) of
this Schedule until the information and documents required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to Part III of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement shall have been duly furnished:

            (1)    with respect to Part B.4 (d) of the Project
                   (financial-adviser-led transactions), for the
                   first two Subprojects under such component;

            (2)    with respect to Part B.4 (e) of the Project
                   (investment-bank-led transactions), for each
                   such Subproject;

            (3)    with respect to Part B.4 (f) of the Project
                   (sectoral-restructuring transactions), for each
                   such Subproject; and

            (4)    with respect to Part B.4 (g) of the Project, for
                   the first two environmental reviews;

      (e)   payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b)
of this Schedule until the plan required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to Part V of the Schedule to the Project Agreement shall
have been duly furnished;

      (f)   payments under Category (2) (g) of this Schedule until
an agreement or other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank shall
have been made between WCER and the Privatization Center on the
manner of carrying out by the Privatization Center of procurement,
disbursement and related accounting functions for Part C of the
Project.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to continue to assist
the Borrower in formulation of sound policy measures for
privatization of state-owned enterprises and in areas complementary
thereto; (ii) to provide the implementation resources, in the form
of professional skills, international experience, technical
expertise, and equipment required to develop and carry out the State
Privatization Program during its initial and most crucial phase; and
(iii) to assist the Borrower in developing entrepreneurship by
facilitating business entry and by providing pilot business advisory
and infrastructure services.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Policy Studies and Advisory Support

      Development of policy and implementation arrangements to
ensure that aspects relating to anti-monopoly and pro-competition
issues, enterprise finance, corporate governance, environmental
policy and other sectoral issues are appropriately reflected in the
privatization process.

Part B:     Implementation of the State Privatization Program

1.    Strengthening the capacity of the Privatization Center to



implement the State Privatization Program, including support for
incremental staffing, facilities and operations and the provision
of technical assistance and staff training to the Privatization
Center.

2.    The preparation and implementation of a plan for mass
privatization under the State Privatization Program, including:

      (a)   the preparation and maintenance of a data base of state
            and municipal enterprises subject to corporatization and
            privatization pursuant to such mass privatization,
            preparation of privatization plans and implementation
            of the closed subscription procedures relating to the
            issuance of shares to the workers’ collectives;

      (b)   the introduction, printing, distribution, circulation
            and cancellation of privatization vouchers under the
            State Privatization Program;

      (c)   preparation and implementation of detailed guidelines
            and regulations regarding the establishment and
            operation of investment funds and development of an
            effective system regarding the exchange of privatization
            vouchers for shares of enterprises being privatized; and

      (d)   the preparation of procedures for, and assistance in
            conducting auctions of enterprise shares in exchange for
            privatization vouchers.

3.    Implementation of a large-scale public information campaign
concerning the State Privatization Program in order to explain its
components to the public.

4.    Identification of specific enterprises suitable for
privatization and the preparation for, and implementation of,
privatization plans for such enterprises, including:

      (a)   selection of large enterprises with identified prospects
            for successful privatization;

      (b)   provision of legal support to assist in the development
            of legal solutions regarding transactional elements in
            the privatization process;

      (c)   preparation and implementation of pilot programs for the
            sale of shares in exchange for vouchers in selected
            corporatized state enterprises, including evaluation of
            the impact of such sales on the performance of the
            enterprise concerned;

      (d)   preparation for privatization of about 25 large
            enterprises, not involving investment banking services;

      (e)   preparation for privatization of about 25 large
            enterprises, involving investment banking services;

      (f)   preparation for privatization of about 8 large
            enterprises/sectors requiring restructuring; and

      (g)   environmental assessments and environmental reviews of
            about 50 large enterprises in the process of
            privatization.

5.    Assisting in the privatization of small- and medium-sized
enterprises in approximately 12 regions including:

      (a)   management and provision of advisory support for small-
            and medium-sized privatization;

      (b)   management and provision of technical skills and
            services in connection with privatization of small- and
            medium-sized enterprises; and



      (c)   implementation of small- and medium-size privatization,
            including auctions and other forms of privatization of
            these enterprises.

6.    Acquisition, transportation, installation and ongoing
maintenance of necessary equipment for regional privatization.

7.    Training of officials of the Borrower, local consultants  and
enterprise managers in skills relevant to the privatization process,
including organization of on- and off-site instruction and
preparation and distribution of training materials pursuant to a
training program.

Part C:     Business Development and Promotion

1.    Implementation of up to six pilot business advisory and
infrastructure projects.

2.    Strengthening of the analytical capacity of WCER in the area
of private sector business activity. Carrying out of policy and
program studies on measures supportive of small business and new
enterprises.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning August 15, 1998            3,750,000
      through February 15, 2010

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                            Premiums on Prepayment



      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procuredunder contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.



Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

I.    Organization and Management of Part C of the Project

A.    Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower
through WCER, with the assistance of the Privatization Center in the
procurement of goods and services and for making disbursements to
suppliers, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Subsidiary Project Management Arrangements.

B.    WCER will:

(1)   assign a core Project team, consisting of at least four full-
time staff, whose qualifications and terms of reference shall be
acceptable to the Bank, to oversee implementation of Project
activities.

(2)   make available and maintain appropriate office facilities and
support staff, which shall be acceptable to the Bank.

(3)   engage a consultant in accordance with Section II of Schedule
4 to this Agreement to assist the core team during the execution of
the Project.

II.   Implementation of Project Components under Part C of the
      Project



A.    Pilot Projects (Part C.1)

(1)   The ultimate design and technical responsibility for the pilot
projects will be delegated by WCER to project managers selected in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The project
managers will be assigned to operate local facilities with the
support of consultants.

(2)   Contracts for the operation of each local facility established
as a pilot project will be appraised by WCER on the basis of
criteria acceptable to the Bank, and will consist of foreign and
local consultants, engaged in accordance with Section II of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to assist management and provide
training and advice.

(3)   WCER will:

      (a)   provide overall coordination of the pilot projects;

      (b)   monitor progress in achieving the objectives of the
Project; and

      (c)   evaluate performance of project managers and
consultants.

B.    Central Policy and Programs (Part C.2)

      The Borrower will ensure that the core team at WCER which is
responsible for Part C of the Project, together with any consultants
engaged in this component:

(1)   have appropriate access to information collected by agencies
of the Borrower for purposes of gathering and analyzing relevant
data, and

(2)   have support for the utilization and dissemination of the
resulting information through appropriate channels.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                 shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into



                 the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                 shall specify.

            (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                 other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                 this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                 of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                 each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                 Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                 into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                 said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                 out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.



      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.