World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3602 IND

              (Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated June 25, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3602 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1993 between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower intends to enter into financial
arrangements with non-Indonesian sources in an aggregate amount
equivalent to about one hundred forty nine million two hundred
thousand dollars ($149,200,000) to assist in financing the turbine
generating equipment and metalworks, transformers and switchgear
under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project;

      (C)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower and Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN as herein defined) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to PLN part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PLN;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have
            arisen under which any further withdrawals
            under the Loan would be inconsistent with
            the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
            the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Cirata Hydroelectric Plant" means the power plant
located on the Citarum River in West Java designed to generate about
1000 MW through eight 125 MW generating units.

      (b)   "Governing Laws" means Law No. 19 of 1960, Law No. 9 of
1969, and Law No. 15 of 1985, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983,
Government Regulation No. 28 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 10
of 1989 and Government Regulation No. 17 of 1990, and any other
legal provisions in force at the time of this Agreement governing
the organization and operations of PLN, as any of them may be
amended or supplemented from time to time;

      (c)   "PLN" means Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, a corporate
entity established and existing under the laws of the Borrower;

      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;

      (e)   "Rupiah" means the Borrower’s currency; and

      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered or entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided to PLN under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred four million dollars ($104,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.



      Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c) For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."



                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Part C of the
Project, through its Ministry of Mines and Energy, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed the funds, facilities,
services and other resources for carrying out such part of the
Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, cause PLN to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of PLN therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PLN
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.

      (b) The Borrower shall relend to PLN out of the proceeds of
the Loan an amount equivalent to $101,700,000 under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PLN,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the
following principal terms and conditions: (i) PLN shall pay interest
on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a variable rate per annum equal to
the sum of the following: the interest rate paid by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a percentage fee to
be established by the Borrower for each payment date on the basis of
the average of the annual rate of change in the value of the Rupiah
in respect to the Dollar during the previous three years and to be
calculated in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the
Bank, plus one percent; (ii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan shall be repaid over 20 years including five years’ grace; and
(iii) the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.

      (c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of consultants’ services required for Part C of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) hereof.

      (b)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.



      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by PLN,  in
respect of Parts A and B of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement, and by the Borrower in respect of Part C of
the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project of the departments
and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part C of
the Project or any part thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:

      (a)   review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s proposed
investment plan for the next five fiscal years, including the
priorities assigned to the investments included under such plans and
the balance between the generation, transmission and distribution of
electric power likely to result from such investments; and

      (b)   review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s development
plan and associated financial forecasts and financing plan provided
for in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement, and take appropriate
measures to facilitate the access of PLN to possible sources of
finance required for the implementation of such plans.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such actions as
shall be necessary to ensure that transfer of profits from PLN to
the Overall Development Fund (Dana Pembangunan Semesta) shall not
prevent PLN from implementing its annual investment plans referred
to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   PLN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date



of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that PLN will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   Any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of PLN to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PLN or for the suspension of its operations.

      (e)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or
by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.

      (f)    Any of the financial arrangements, referred to in
paragraph (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement, shall have failed
to become effective by March 31, 1994, or such later date as may be
agreed by the Bank; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;

      (b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of the said
Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PLN.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance with
its terms; and

      (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII



             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY               44319 DJMLN IA
                  Jakarta                   45799 DEPKEU IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

                  Cable address:          Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                        By /s/ Mr. Tjahjono, Charg� d'Affaires
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of



                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category             Dollar Equivalent   to be Financed

(1)   Civil works                55,000,000     75%

(2)   Consultants’
      services and
      training:

      (a) under Part A.4         23,300,000     100%
          of the Project

      (b) under Part B           15,200,000     100%
          of the Project

      (c) under Part C            2,300,000     100%
          of the Project

(3)   Unallocated                 8,200,000
                                -----------
      TOTAL                     104,000,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 may be made in respect of
Categories 2 (a) and 2 (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after December 31, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand PLN’s peaking
electricity generating capacity and improve service reliability; (b)
update hydroelectric inventories and strengthen PLN’s capability in
planning investigation and operation of hydroelectric schemes and in
environmental management of power projects; (c) enhance the
environmental conditions in the area of the existing reservoirs on
the Citarum river; and (d) strengthen PLN’s institutional and
financial capacity.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

PART A:

1.    Construction of two headrace tunnels, each about 690 meters
long and about 8.4 meters in diameter; two surge shafts, each about
80 meters long and about 18.6 meters in diameter; four steel lined
penstock tunnels, each about 200 meters long and about 5.2 meters in
diameter; and four tailrace tunnels, each about 138 meters long and
about 6.4 meters in diameter, with associated outlet structures.

2.    Installation, within the existing cavern of the powerhouse of
the Cirata Hydroelectric Plant, of four additional power generating
units each of 125 megawatt, including turbine, generators, governors
regulators, control equipment and associated facilities.



3.    Installation of transformers and switchgear for connection to
the existing grid.

4.    Provision of technical assistance for engineering and
construction supervision of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.

PART B:

1.    Carrying out studies relating to: (a) upgrading of
hydrological and environmental data bases; (b) updating of
hydroelectric inventories and determining pre-feasibility of
selected hydroelectric schemes; and (c) identifying options to
enhance the environmental conditions in the existing reservoirs on
the Citarum River.

2.    Carrying out of training programs for PLN staff in: (a)
environmental management in relation to both hydroelectric and
thermal power projects; and (b) dam safety and instrumentation
monitoring.

3.    Provision of pre-construction stage engineering services for
the proposed Besai Hydroelectric Project in South Sumatra.

Part C:

      Carrying out studies regarding the power sector, including
studies relating to: (a) institutional and regulatory framework of
the power sector; and (b) long-term strategy for financing power
sector investments.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

February 1, 1999                           1,945,000
August 1, 1999                             2,015,000
February 1, 2000                           2,090,000
August 1, 2000                             2,170,000
February 1, 2001                           2,250,000
August 1, 2001                             2,335,000
February 1, 2002                           2,420,000
August 1, 2002                             2,510,000
February 1, 2003                           2,605,000
August 1, 2003                             2,700,000
February 1, 2004                           2,800,000
August 1, 2004                             2,905,000
February 1, 2005                           3,010,000
August 1, 2005                             3,125,000
February 1, 2006                           3,240,000
August 1, 2006                             3,360,000
February 1, 2007                           3,485,000
August 1, 2007                             3,615,000
February 1, 2008                           3,750,000
August 1, 2008                             3,890,000
February 1, 2009                           4,035,000
August 1, 2009                             4,185,000
February 1, 2010                           4,340,000
August 1, 2010                             4,500,000
February 1, 2011                           4,665,000
August 1, 2011                             4,840,000
February 1, 2012                           5,020,000
August 1, 2012                             5,205,000
February 1, 2013                           5,400,000
August 1, 2013                             5,590,000



_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity