World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3658 IND

     (National Watershed Management and Conservation Project)

                              between

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 10, 1993

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3658 IND

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
                  under which any further withdrawals under the
                  Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
                  Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
                  Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;

      (b)   "Indigenous People" means those social groups in
Indonesia that have a distinct social and cultural identity, and
that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development
process induced by the Project or any part thereof;

      (c)   "NGO" means a non-governmental organization, a private
not for profit enterprise the objectives of which are to promote
humanitarian assistance and socio-cultural cooperation and develop-
ment;

      (d)   "POLA RLKT DAS" means Pola Rehabilitasi Lahan dan
Konservasi Tanah Daerah Aliran Sungai, the Borrower’s 25 year
watershed plan;

      (e)   "RTL RLKT SUB-DAS" means Rencana Teknik Lapangan RLKT
Sub-DAS, the Borrower’s five year watershed plan;

      (f)   "RTT" means Rencana Teknik Tahunan, the Borrower’s
annual watershed plan;

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (h)   "Tim Pengendali" means the Borrower’s inter-ministerial
central guidance team, coordinating the implementation of the
Borrower’s Regreening and Reforestation Program; and

      (i)   "Regreening and Reforestation Program" means the
Borrower’s national land and forest rehabilitation program for
water-shed quality improvement, implemented under the Borrower’s
Presidential Instruction.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of fifty six million five hundred thousand dollars
($56,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.



      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account
in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
                        principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                        out-standing from time to time, at a rate
                        for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
                        Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
                        of the pre-ceding Quarter, plus one-half of
                        one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
                        dates specified in Section 2.06 of this



                        Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
                        accrued on the principal amount outstanding
                        during the preceding Interest Period,
                        calculated at the rates applicable during
                        such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
                        each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
                        Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
                        Borrowings determined in respect of such
                        Quarter."

                  "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
                        commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or
                        October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, engineering, environmental, financial
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by



                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has reviewed and revised, as necessary,
the terms of reference of the chairs of the Tim Pengendali
Secretariat, the four Tim Pengendali Working Groups and its leaders,
and the PIMPRO (Project Manager) of the PUOPR (General Planning and
Operation of the Regreening and Reforestation Projects), and has
furnished to the Bank such terms of reference.

      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget



            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                64145 (WUI), or
                                                197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                              By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar (Ambassador)
                                         Authorized Representative

                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                              By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar             to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed

(1)   Civil works:

      (a) Part B.2 (a) of        2,400,000      60%
          the Project

      (b) Part B.2 (b) of        1,800,000      60%
          the Project,
          including related
          vegetative and



          other materials

      (c) Other Parts of           200,000      60%
          the Project

(2)   Equipment,                 3,600,000      100% of foreign
      furniture and                             expenditures,
      materials                                 100% of local expen-
      (excluding                                ditures (ex-factory
      computer equipment                        cost) and 65% of
      and vehicles)                             local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(3)   Agricultural inputs        2,900,000      80%
      under Part B.1 of
      the Project (exclud-
      ing fertilizers)

(4)   Village grants               200,000      60%
      under Part B.3 (d)
      of the Project

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(5)   Training:

      (a) Part A of the          5,700,000      100%
          Project

      (b) Part B.3 (a) of        1,200,000      70%
          the Project

(6)   Per diem, travel           1,000,000      60%
      costs, and honoraria
      for seconded Project
      staff, extension
      workers and local
      government staff
      under Parts A and B
      of the Project

(7)   Research activities,
      studies and consultants’
      services:

      (a) Part A of the          7,500,000      100%
          Project

      (b) Part B.3 (b)           4,200,000      100%
          and B.4 of the
          Project

(8)   Planting materials         7,100,000      100%
      under Part C of
      the Project

(9)   Nursery establishment     15,900,000      20%
      and maintenance in-
      puts under Part C of
      the Project (exclud-
      ing fertilizers)

(10)  Unallocated                2,800,000
                               ßßßßßßßßßßß
      TOTAL                     56,500,000
                               ëëëëëëëëëëë

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:



      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;

      (c)   the term "agricultural inputs" means planting materials
(including tree seedlings and grasses), pesticides and livestock for
Part B.1 (a) of the Project; planting materials (including tree
seed-lings and grasses), pesticides and labor for Part B.1 (b) and
(c) of the Project; and farm tools, small farm equipment and
materials for Part B.1 (b) of the Project;

      (d)   the term "planting materials" means seeds, seedlings,
manure and other organic planting materials for soil conservation
demonstration units (UPSA), and sedentary farming demonstration
units (UPM), financed under the regreening portion of the Borrower’s
Regreening and Reforestation Program; and

      (e)   the term "nursery establishment and maintenance inputs"
means planting materials, pesticides, small tools, small equipment,
materials and labor for village nurseries, financed under the
regreening portion of the Borrower’s Regreening and Reforestation
Program.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(1) (a), until the Borrower has prepared a manual, satisfactory to
the Bank, on roads and drainage design and maintenance, suitable to
the environmental conditions of the watershed;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(1) (a), where withdrawal requests are received by the Bank:

            (i)    after April 1, 1997, until the Bank has received
                   evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
                   roads upgraded under Part B.2 (a) of the Project
                   are being maintained in accordance with the
                   criteria set forth in the manual referred to in
                   paragraph (b) above; and

            (ii)   after April 1, 1998, until the Bank has received
                   evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
                   roads upgraded under Part B.2 (a) of the Project
                   are being maintained in accordance with the
                   criteria set forth in the manual referred to in
                   paragraph (b) above;

      (d)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories
(5) (a) and (7) (a), until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that qualified full-time
seconded staff have been appointed to head the following working
groups: Information Support System and Land Use Planning Working
Group under Part A.1 of the Project; Upland Research and Nursery
Development Working Group under Part A.2 of the Project; and
Training and Extension Working Group under Part A.3 of the Project;
and

      (e)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories
(8) and (9), until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, that: (i) guidelines outlining the revised
treatments for UPSAs and UPMs included in the Regreening and



Reforestation Program have been prepared in a form satisfactory to
the Bank and that such guidelines have been distributed to the
relevant implementing agencies; (ii) the required research,
training, planning, and information support systems activities under
Part A of the Project have been initiated, and a review of such
activities has been carried out by the Borrower in consultation with
the Bank; and (iii) the Borrower has established a distribution
system by which planting materials of the required standard quality
are available and are distributed to the relevant farmers in a
timely manner.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for works, contracts for goods below $200,000
equivalent, and contracts for services below $100,000 equivalent
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to improve watershed
environmental quality, to protect downstream watershed resources,
and to improve the living standards of poor upland farmers by
improving and restoring the productive potential of the resource
base.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:

PART A: National Institutional Strengthening

1.    Information Support System and Land Use Planning

      (a)   Information Support System

      Provision of training, workshops, data collection equipment,
computer equipment, system software and data base development, and
technical assistance for the development and implementation of an
information support system to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity, at
the national, provincial and district levels, to plan and manage its
Regreening and Reforestation Program, comprising two sub-systems,
namely: (i) a resource information system to deal with geographical
and physical information concerning the status and condition of
resources, including economic and cultural landscapes; and (ii) a
management information system to deal with information concerning
planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation activities.

      (b)   Land Use Planning

      Provision of training, workshops, data collection equipment,
computer equipment, system software and data base development, and
technical assistance for the strengthening of the Borrower’s land
use planning procedures under the Regreening and Reforestation
Program, including fuller integration of watershed plans into
regional development plans.

2.    Upland Research and Development

      Improvement of the technical aspects of field activities of
the Borrower’s Regreening and Reforestation Program through:

      (a)   establishment of a decentralized multi-disciplinary
program of upland research and development of improved planting
materials, including: (i) carrying out of a review of current
technology employed in the major agro-ecological zones of the
critical watersheds; and (ii) dissemination of farming systems that
integrate perennial cash crops and annual food crops, and use
grasses and other vegetative hedges to stabilize lands;

      (b)   improvement of seed source harvesting and handling,



plant propagation, and nursery practices and development, including
development of quality standards for planting materials,  to ensure
that quality fruit and timber tree species with strong local demand
are available to support the Regreening and Reforestation Program;
and

      (c)   provision of study tours and dissemination of publica-
tions on new technical approaches to soil conservation; provision of
technical assistance to the Borrower’s Agency for Forestry Research
and Development within the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry, for the
development of a strategic plan for soil conservation research; and
provision of technical assistance to the Watershed Management
Technology Centers.

3.    Training and Extension Development

      Provision of training programs in information support systems,
land use and participatory planning, improved site-specific farm
production, marketing and conservation technology, to local govern-
ment staff, extension workers, technical field staff involved in the
implementation of the Regreening and Reforestation Program, farmers
and women groups.

PART B: Upper Cimanuk Watershed Conservation and Development

      Implementation of the following in the districts of Garut and
Sumedang in the Upper Cimanuk watershed of the Province of West
Java:

1.    Upland Conservation Management

      (a)   Provision of in-kind grants, in the form of agricultural
inputs, to farmers for the development of model micro-watersheds and
surrounding expansion areas.

      (b)   Establishment of about 75 village-based nurseries for
the supply of high quality seedlings for on-farm treatments.

      (c)   Establishment of a model village nursery in Garut and in
Sumedang for testing the suitability of more advanced nursery tech-
nology.

2.    Roads and Upland Erosion Control

      (a)   Upgrading and maintenance of about 126 km of village
access roads, including road bank stabilization, and construction of
about 190 km of roadside drainage control.

      (b)   Carrying out vegetative and structural land
stabilization treatments.

3.    Upland Support Services

      Provision of long-term support to upland conservation and up-
land erosion control treatments through:

      (a)   Improvement of planning procedures, provision of exten-
sion services, dissemination of information on credit and marketing,
and provision of training to farmers, village groups, extension
workers, and local government officials.

      (b)   Carrying out of farming system research through
establishment of three research plots in representative agro-
ecological zones and establishment of small on-farm technology
displays in the model micro-watersheds.

      (c)   Provision of land titles (sertifikat tanah hak milik) to
farmers investing in more sustainable farming practices and adopting
successful soil and moisture technologies.

      (d)   Provision of grants, to selected communities having



demonstrated initiative in undertaking soil conservation activities,
for the financing of small village projects including, inter alia,
clean water supplies and agricultural processing facilities.

4.    Project Management and Institutional Strengthening

      (a)   Provision of technical assistance to district
governments in the carrying out of Project activities under Part B
of the Project.

      (b)   Establishment of a resource information system and a
management information system linked to the requirements of the
Regreening and Reforestation Program.

      (c)   Carrying out of studies, including the following: base-
line information survey, role of women in upland farming systems,
and land utilization survey.

PART C: Investment Support for Regreening and Reforestation

      Carrying out of the Borrower’s Regreening and Reforestation
Program in the Borrower’s critical watersheds.

                  *          *          *          *

      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

      April 15, 1999                       1,055,000
      October 15, 1999                     1,095,000
      April 15, 2000                       1,135,000
      October 15, 2000                     1,180,000
      April 15, 2001                       1,220,000
      October 15, 2001                     1,270,000
      April 15, 2002                       1,315,000
      October 15, 2002                     1,365,000
      April 15, 2003                       1,415,000
      October 15, 2003                     1,465,000
      April 15, 2004                       1,520,000
      October 15, 2004                     1,580,000
      April 15, 2005                       1,635,000
      October 15, 2005                     1,695,000
      April 15, 2006                       1,760,000
      October 15, 2006                     1,825,000
      April 15, 2007                       1,895,000
      October 15, 2007                     1,965,000
      April 15, 2008                       2,035,000
      October 15, 2008                     2,110,000
      April 15, 2009                       2,190,000
      October 15, 2009                     2,270,000
      April 15, 2010                       2,355,000
      October 15, 2010                     2,445,000
      April 15, 2011                       2,535,000
      October 15, 2011                     2,630,000
      April 15, 2012                       2,725,000
      October 15, 2012                     2,830,000
      April 15, 2013                       2,935,000
      October 15, 2013                     3,050,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.



                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:      International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procure-ment under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with  this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers



      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Civil works for road upgrading and maintenance, and related
drainage works and land stabilization treatments, may be carried out
by force account, using local villagers for labor wherever possible,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Equipment, materials and furniture estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

4.    Equipment, materials and furniture estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $50,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

5.    Contracts for equipment for satellite imagery may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

6.    Planting materials and nursery establishment inputs may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparing of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines or after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.



2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under con-tracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
carry out such activities first in one watershed in each of the
following provinces: West Java (Upper Cimanuk), North Sumatra,
Central Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, West Kalimantan, and East Nusa
Tenggara.

2.    In carrying out Part B.1 (b) and (c) of the Project, the
Borrower shall, prior to the mid-term review of the Project but not
later than January 1, 1996, review the POLA RLKT DAS, RTL RLKT SUB-
DAS, and RTT plans and prepare recommendations and action plans for
the improvement of the institutional and technical aspects of such
plans, and furnish such recommendations and action plans to the Bank
for comments.

3.    In carrying out Part B.3 (d) of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank village project proposals, satisfactory to
the Bank, relating to the use of the village grants.

4.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and B
of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1994
and in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
employ the following consultants:

      (a)   for Part A of the Project: a watershed management
adviser, an environmental adviser, a research and technology
development adviser, a training and extension adviser, a watershed
planning adviser, a management information systems adviser, and a
resource information systems adviser; and

      (b)   for Part B of the Project: a project management
specialist, an upland farming systems specialist, a nursery
specialist, a land use planning specialist, a road engineer, a soil
and water conservation engineer, and a socio-economist.

5.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, not later than August 31, 1994



and in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
a qualified NGO to assist the district governments of Garut and
Sumedang with the participatory planning procedures.

6.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:

      (a)   for comments, not later than August 15 in each year,
commencing August 15, 1994, until completion of the Project, an
annual Project work program for Parts A and B of the Project;

      (b)   not later than August 15 in each year, commencing August
15, 1995, until completion of the Project, a consolidated report of
all activities to be funded under the Regreening and Reforestation
Program; and

      (c)   not later than June 30 in each year, commencing June 30,
1994, until completion of the Project, an annual Project progress
report incorporating information obtained from the management infor-
mation system referred to in Part A.1 (a) of the Project.

7.    The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1996, carry out
a mid-term review of Project implementation, in consultation with
the Bank, and shall, thereafter, carry out the recommendations
agreed with the Bank in accordance with an action plan acceptable to
the Bank.

8.    In accordance with the Borrower’s commitment to the protection
of the interests of Indigenous People, the Borrower agrees to:

      (a)   ensure that the benefits the Indigenous People receive
under the Project are in harmony with their economic, social, and
cultural preferences;

      (b)   through a process of informed participation, involve
concerned Indigenous People in the preparation and implementation of
the activities to be carried out under Part C of the Project;

      (c)   mitigate or avoid adverse effects on Indigenous People
caused or likely to be caused by the Project; and

      (d)   in watersheds where Indigenous People are present, carry
out the research activities taking into account such Indigenous
People’s cultural practices.

9.    The Borrower shall provide the computer equipment and vehicles
required for the Project in accordance with a schedule agreed with
the Bank.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required forthe Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively



for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the docu-
                   ments and other evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
                   draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                   Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.



6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall other-wise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.