World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3569 MD

                          Loan Agreement

               (Emergency Drought Recovery Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated March 15, 1993

                                                LOAN NUMBER 3569 MD

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (I) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the term "Project Preparation
Advance" means the project preparation advance granted by the Bank
to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 2,
1993 and February 3, 1993 between the Borrower and the Bank.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in



                  which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                  fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                  which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                  as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial, technical and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants



      Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            277005 Chisinau
            Cosmonaut Street, 7
            Republic of Moldova

                                          Telefax:

                                            (70422) 22-86-10

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C.  20433
            United States of America

            Cable Address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their



duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                  By /s/ T. Pantsiru
                                         Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated           % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar equivalent)      to be Financed

(1)   Goods                   25,700,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures

(2)   Consultants’               150,000        100%
      services

(3)   Refinancing                150,000        Amount due
      of Project                                pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (b)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
                             ___________

      TOTAL                   26,000,000
                             ___________

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower,
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that
of another country from the territory of which the goods and
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods
or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,200,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after February 1, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 2



                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to assist in the alleviation
of the adverse impact of the 1992 drought and in the recovery of
agricultural production in the Borrower’s territory.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:

      Carrying out a program to facilitate the recovery of the
agricultural sector from the adverse impact of the drought,
including the provision therefore, and the distribution to end
users, of: (1) agrochemicals, including plant protection agents;
(2) agricultural machinery and spare parts; (3) plant seeds; and (4)
poultry feed.

Part B:

      Provision of technical assistance, training and office
equipment and supplies to strengthen institutional capability for
the carrying out of the Project.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1993.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each February 15 and August 15

      beginning August 15, 1998
      through August 15, 2009                   1,085,000.00

On February 15, 2010                            1,045,000.00

_______________________

*     the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                      The interest rate (expressed
                                      as a percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan on the
                                      day of prepayment multiplied
                                      by:

Not more than three years
      before maturity                           0.18

More than three years but
      not more than six years
      before maturity                           0.35



More than six years but
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity                           0.65

More than 11 years but not
      more than 15 years
      before maturity                           0.88

More than 15 years before
      maturity                                  1.00

                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
procurement of goods shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:

      (1)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.

      (2)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

      "2.8 Notification and Advertising

      The international community should be notified in a timely
manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising
invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder’s invitation list, to
apply for prequalification, or to bid;  such advertisements should
be placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower’s country and, in addition, in at least one of the
following forms:

            (a)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business;

            (b)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international circu-
                  lation; or

            (c)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."

      (3)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
      require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
      currency widely used in international trade and specified in
      the bidding documents."

      (4)   Paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.

Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures



1.    Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are available
through limited sources of supply, may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).

2.    Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees the early delivery
thereof is essential for achieving the objectives of the Project,
may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are proprietary, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply in respect of the review of
invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.

2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

1.    The Borrower shall maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the overall coordination and supervision of the carrying
out of the Project, including for ensuring that: (a) the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan are delivered to, and paid
for by, the intended end-users thereof in a timely and efficient
manner and in accordance with a cost recovery policy satisfactory to
the Bank; and (b) the agrochemicals to be provided under Part A(1)
of the Project are selected, stored and applied in accordance with
appropriate safety, health and environmental practices satisfactory
to the Bank.

2.    In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants, with qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the carrying out of
the Project and the procurement of the goods therefor.