World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3664 MOR

                          Loan Agreement

              (Fifth Water Supply Project - Kingdom)

                              between

                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated December 3, 1993

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3664 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1993, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      (B)   the Borrower and/or ONEP (as defined in whereas (D) of
this Agreement) intend to contract from other external sources of
funds (the Cofinanciers) one or more loans (the Cofinanciers’ Loans)
in an aggregate amount equivalent to eighty-four million dollars
($84,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinanciers’ Loan
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and/or ONEP and
the Cofinanciers;

      (C)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by the
Participating Utilities (as defined in Section 1.02 (c) of this
Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Participating
Utilities the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      (D)   the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the National Water
Supply Authority (ONEP), to be guaranteed by the Borrower, to assist
in the financing of activities related to the Project, upon the
terms and conditions set forth in a loan agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and the National Water Supply Authority
(the ONEP Loan Agreement) and a guarantee agreement of same date
between the Borrower and the Bank (the ONEP Guarantee Agreement);
and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Participating
Utilities;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "RAD" means the Water and Electricity Distribution
Authority of Casablanca (Regie Autonome Intercommunale de
Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricite de Casablanca), established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Dahir No. 1-61-218 dated
October 21, 1961, as the same may be amended from time to time;

      (b)   "RADEEF" means the Water and Electricity Distribution
Authority of Fes (Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution
d’Eau et d’Electricite de Fes); "RED" means the Water and
Electricity Distribution Authority of Rabat-Sale (Regie Autonome
Intercommunale de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricite de Rabat-
Sale); "RADEEM" means the Water and Electricity Distribution
Authority of Meknes (Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution
d’Eau et d’Electricite de Meknes; "RADEEMA" means the Water and
Electricity Distribution Authority of Marrakech (Regie Autonome
Intercommunale de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricite de Marrakech);
"RAK" means the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority of
Kenitra (Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d’Eau et
d’Electricite de Kenitra); all such utilities established and
operating pursuant to the Decree (Decret) No. 2-64-394 dated
September 29, 1964, issued by the Borrower, as the same may be
amended from time to time;

      (c)   "Participating Utilities" means, collectively, the six
entities referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, and
"Participating Utility" means, individually, any one of the
Participating Utilities;

      (d)   "its Respective Part of the Project" means, in respect
of:



            (i)    RAD, Parts B.1 (a) and B.2 (a) of the Project;

           (ii)    RADEEF, Parts B.1 (b) and B.2 (b) of the
                   Project;

          (iii)    RED, Parts B.1 (c) and B.2 (c) of the Project;

           (iv)    RADEEM, Parts B.1 (d) and B.2 (d) of the
                   Project;

            (v)    RADEEMA, Parts B.1 (e) and B.2 (e) of the
                   Project; and

           (vi)    RAK, Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (f) of the Project.

      (e)   "Project Agreements" means, collectively, the agreements
between the Bank and each Participating Utility of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreements; and "Project Agreement" means, individually, any
one of the Project Agreements;

      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Participating Utilities pursuant to Part A. 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means, individually, any one of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

      (g)   "Subsidiary Loans" means the loans provided for under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;

      (h)   "Basic Legislation" means the Dahir and the Decree
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, all as the
same may be amended from time to time;

      (i)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (j)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing
on January 1 and ending on December 31;

      (k)   "Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (l)   "Performance Contracts" means, collectively, the
contracts to be concluded between the Borrower and the Participating
Utilities pursuant to Part A. 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and
Section 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreements, as the same shall
be updated in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 (c) of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreements and Part B of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and "Performance Contract" means, individually, any
one of the Performance Contracts; and

      (m)   "Investment, Financial and Operational Targets" means,
in respect of each Participating Utility, the investment, financial
and operational targets set forth in the Performance Contract
between the Borrower and such Participating Utility, as the same may
be revised from time to time in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.

      (n)   "ONEP Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and the National Water Supply
Authority (Office National de l’Eau Potable) for a Fifth Water
Supply Project - ONEP (Loan No. 3665 MOR).

      (o)  "ONEP Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for a Fifth
Water Supply Project - ONEP (Loan No. 3665 MOR).

                            ARTICLE II



                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred twenty-eight million dollars
($128,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for Part B of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dirhams one special deposit account
for each Participating Utility in its General Treasury. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreements.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.



      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial and public utility practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part A of the Project. The Borrower
shall cause the Participating Utilities, through the issuance of
appropriate regulations, to carry out Part B of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial and public utility practices.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   pay the balance of all water bills due and payable as of
December 31, 1992, in full in Fiscal Year 1993 for the
Administration and in three installments, the first one of 33% to be
paid in Fiscal Year 1993, the second one of 33% to be paid in Fiscal
Year 1994; and the third one of 34% to be paid in Fiscal Year 1995,
for the collectivites locales. In order to avoid the recurrence of
arrears, the Borrower shall maintain the right of the Participating
Utilities to curtail water supply to any administration or
collectivit� locale; and

     (b)    pay its water bills when due and payable and assist the
Participating Utilities in the recovery of outstanding water bills



of public enterprises.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with regard
to the Borrower’s policies in respect of the overall development of
the water supply sector.

      (b)   In order to enable the Participating Utilities and ONEP
to comply with their respective obligations set forth in: (i)
Section 4.02 and Section 4.03 of, and Section 1 (c) of Schedule 2
to, the Project Agreements; and (ii) Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of, and
Section 3 of Schedule 5 to, the ONEP Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all action required to enable the Participating Utilities
and ONEP to annually adjust as and when needed the structure or
levels of their respective rates.

      Section 4.03. The provisions of Section 1. C. (2) (a) of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
dated July 27, 1987 (Loan No. 2825 MOR - National Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project) are hereby amended with respect to the
Participating Utilities to read as set forth in Section 4.02 of the
Project Agreements.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   Any Participating Utility shall have failed to perform
any of its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that any Participating Utility will
be able to perform its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.

      (c)   The Basic Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of any Participating Utility to perform
any of its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of any Participating Utility or for the suspension of its
operations.

      (e)   The proceeds of the financing provided under the
Cofinanciers’ Loan Agreements shall not have become available to the
Borrower for Part A of the Project by July 1, 1997; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for Part A of the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.

      (f)   (i)    Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of Part A of
                         the Project shall have been suspended,
                         cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                         part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

           (ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not



                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for Part
                   A of the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                   under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.

      (b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

      (c)   The event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of
paragraph (f) (ii) of said Section.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have been executed
on behalf of each of the parties thereto;

      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ONEP Loan Agreement and the ONEP Guarantee Agreement, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have
been fulfilled; and

      (c)   the Performance Contracts shall have been executed on
behalf of each of the parties thereto.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by each Participating Utility, and are legally binding upon
each Participating Utility in accordance with their respective
terms; and

      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the parties
thereto in accordance with their respective terms.

      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the



purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministere des Finances
            Direction du Tresor et des
              Finances Exterieures
            Rabat 10000
            Kingdom of Morocco
                                           Telex:

                                             36147 M
                                             36860 M

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                         By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa

                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works and           55,000,000        RAD:     60%
    supply and                                  RED:     65%



    installation                                RADEEF:  72%
    of pipelines:                               RADEEMA: 72%
                                                RADEEM:  78%
                                                RAK:     78%

(2) Supply and                19,000,000        75%
    installation of
    material and
    equipment:

(3) Goods:                    24,000,000      ) 100% of foreign
                                              ) expenditures,
                                              ) 100% of local
                                              ) expenditures
                                              ) (ex-factory
                                              ) cost) and 80%
                                              ) of local
                                              ) expenditures for
                                              ) other items
                                              ) procured locally
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(4) Consultants’              14,000,000        100%
    services and
    training:

(5) Unallocated               16,000,000

         TOTAL
                             128,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods, works or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after May 6, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
strengthening institutional capabilities in the water supply sector
and improving the delivery of potable water in urban and rural
areas.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Borrower

Ministry of Public Works - Hydraulics Administration.

      (1)   Carrying out of hydrogeological studies and the drilling
of boreholes to expand the urban and rural water supply; provision
of equipment to measure hydrological and hydrogeological data and to



test water quality and acquisition of computer hardware and
software, as required to study and evaluate the Borrower’s water
resources; and development and carrying out of training programs to
strengthen the technical skills of staff of the Hydraulics
Administration of the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works.

Ministry of Public Works - National Meteorology Directorate.

      (2)   Extension and development of the network of measurement
of meteorological data through the construction of automatic
meteorological stations, of aerologic stations, of meteorological
sectors for rainfalls and of equipment for the reception of
satellite data. Installation of computer systems for the analysis
and the treatment of meteorologic scope implementation of training
programs to strengthen the technical capabilities of the National
Meteorology Directorate to improve the assistance the National
Meteorology Directorate can give to the socio-economic sectors.

Ministry of Public Health.

      (3)   Carrying out of a program to sensitize the Borrower’s
populations living in endemic areas on public health issues and
water-borne diseases and to evaluate and improve the quality of
potable water in rural areas; provision of equipment, supplies and
vehicles required therefor; and construction and/or equipment of
epidemiological diagnoses of laboratories.

Ministry of Interior.

      (4)   Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate water supply
facilities and install, operate and maintain pumps in rural areas,
including the provision of equipment, vehicles, workshop vehicles
and training required therefor.

Part B:     Participating Utilities

(1)   Rehabilitation, extension and strengthening in the areas
serviced by the Participating Utilities listed below, of water
production and distribution systems, for the connection of houses to
said systems, provision and/or repair of equipment and vehicles
required therefor, and provision of equipment required for leak
detection in said areas:

      (a)   area serviced by RAD;

      (b)   area serviced by RADEEF;

      (c)   area serviced by RED;

      (d)   area serviced by RADEEM;

      (e)   area serviced by RADEEMA; and

      (f)   area serviced by RAK.

(2)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of each of: (a) RAD, (b) RADEEF, (c) RED,
(d) RADEEM, (e) RADEEMA, and (f) RAK, consisting, for said
Participating Utility of: the development and utilization of
appropriate management information systems, cost accounting systems
and methodologies for the valuation of assets; the provision of
computer hardware and software required therefor; and the carrying
out of training programs to strengthen the skills of staff said
Participating Utility.

Part C:     ONEP

(1)   Carrying out of a program to rehabilitate, extend and
strengthen water production and distribution systems in cities and
centers supplied by the Borrower.

(2)   Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,



management and operations of the Borrower, consisting of:

      (a)   design and implementation of a program to computerize
the Borrower’s functions, including the provision of computer
hardware and software required therefor;

      (b)   the provision of laboratory equipment required to test
water quality;

      (c)   construction of a center for documentation relating to
water supply;

      (d)   preparation of a sewerage master plan; and

      (e)   the development and carrying out of a training program
to strengthen the technical skills of the Borrower’s staff.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

August 1, 1999                              2,395,000
February 1, 2000                            2,480,000
August 1, 2000                              2,575,000
February 1, 2001                            2,670,000
August 1, 2001                              2,770,000
February 1, 2002                            2,870,000
August 1, 2002                              2,980,000
February 1, 2003                            3,090,000
August 1, 2003                              3,205,000
February 1, 2004                            3,325,000
August 1, 2004                              3,445,000
February 1, 2005                            3,575,000
August 1, 2005                              3,705,000
February 1, 2006                            3,845,000
August 1, 2006                              3,990,000
February 1, 2007                            4,135,000
August 1, 2007                              4,290,000
February 1, 2008                            4,450,000
August 1, 2008                              4,615,000
February 1, 2009                            4,785,000
August 1, 2009                              4,965,000
February 1, 2010                            5,150,000
August 1, 2010                              5,340,000
February 1, 2011                            5,535,000
August 1, 2011                              5,745,000
February 1, 2012                            5,955,000
August 1, 2012                              6,180,000
February 1, 2013                            6,405,000
August 1, 2013                              6,645,000
February 1, 2014                            6,885,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed



                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Part B of the Project.

1.    For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall:

      (a)   relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) to the Participating
Utilities under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Participating Utilities, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
which shall include those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 4;

      (b)   take all necessary administrative measures as may be
required on its part to enable the Participating Utilities and ONEP
to carry out the Project and to comply with their other obligations
under each Project Agreement and the ONEP Loan Agreement,
respectively; and

      (c)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.

2.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 1 of this
Part A, the Borrower shall:

      (a)  conclude with each Participating Utility the performance
contract referred to in Section 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement; and

      (b)  duly perform its obligations under each such Performance
Contract and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving said Performance Contract or any
provision thereof.

3.    The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods, works and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and



land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project
shall be carried out by the Participating Utilities pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.

B.    Project Monitoring.

      The Borrower shall: afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with the Borrower and the Participating Utilities
on each report furnished pursuant to Section 2 of Schedule 2 of each
Project Agreement, and thereafter, not later than December 31 of
each Fiscal Year conclude with each Participating Utility such
updated Performance Contract as shall have been agreed between the
Borrower, the Bank and the Participating Utility party to said
Performance Contract, and take all other action which the Borrower
and the Bank shall have agreed to be required on the Borrower’s part
to further the progress in the carrying out of the Project.

                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4

                      Principal Terms of the
                    Subsidiary Loan Agreements

      The principal terms set forth in this Annex shall apply for
the purposes of Part A. 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

1.    The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan to a
Participating Utility shall be the equivalent in terms of the
currency of the Borrower (determined on the date or respective dates
of repayment by said Participating Utility) of the value of the
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out
of a Special Account on account of the cost of goods, works and
services required for said Participating Utility’s respective Part
of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4).

2.    The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
over a period not exceeding 20 years, inclusive of a grace period
not exceeding 5 years.

3.    Interest will be charged on the principal amount of each
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a
rate not less than the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.