World Bank Document


                                                   CONFORMED COPY

                                              LOAN NUMBER 3485-PNG

          (Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project)

                              between

             THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                       Dated April 16, 1993

                                               Loan Number 3485-PNG

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1993, between THE INDEPENDENT STATE
OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "DAL" means the Borrower’s Department of Agriculture and
Livestock;

      (b)   "DEC" means the Borrower’s Department of Environment and
Conservation;

      (c)   "FFB" means oil palm fresh fruit bunches;

      (d)   "FY" means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning January
1 and ending December 31;

      (e)   "HOPPL" means the Higaturu Oil Palms Pty. Ltd.,
established under the Borrower’s Companies Act, Chapter 146, and
owner of the Higaturu palm oil factory in the vicinity of
Popondetta;

      (f)   "HTPL" means the Higaturu Transport Pty. Ltd.,
established under the Borrower’s Companies Act, Chapter 146, to
transport smallholders’ FFB to the Higaturu palm oil factory;

      (g)   "HTPL Financial Management Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HTPL pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Financial Management Agreement;

      (h)   "K" or "Kina" means the currency of the Borrower;

      (i)   "OPIC Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and OPIC pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;

      (j)   "OPIC" means the Oil Palm Industry Corporation,
established under  the Borrower’s OPIC Act of 1992, to carry out
agricultural extension activities;

      (k)   "PNGOPRA" means the Papua New Guinea Oil Palm Research
Association, established under the Borrower’s Associations
Incorporation Act, 1968, Chapter 142;

      (l)   "PNGOPRA Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PNGOPRA pursuant to Section
3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Agreement;

      (m)   "Project Area" means the areas in the vicinity of
Popondetta and Kokoda in the Borrower’s Oro Province;

      (n)   "Smallholder" means a participant under the Project
cultivating oil palm on about six hectares or less of land;

      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and



      (p)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Smallholder out of the proceeds of the Loan.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty seven million dollars ($27,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Kina a special deposit account in Bank of Papua
New Guinea (its Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the



                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.4,
A.5, A.6, B, C, D.1 and E of the Project, shall cause OPIC to carry
out Parts A.3 and D.3 of the Project, and shall cause PNGOPRA to
carry out Part D.2 of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
engineering, environmental and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such Parts of the Project;

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be carried out in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A.1 and A.2
of the Project, enter into a financial management agreement with
HTPL, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and which
shall include the conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.

      (d)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A.3 and
D.3 of the Project, make part of the proceeds of the Loan available
to OPIC as a grant under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OPIC, under conditions acceptable to the
Bank, and which shall include the conditions set forth in paragraphs
3, 9 and 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (e)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part D.2 of the
Project, make part of the proceeds of the Loan available to PNGOPRA
as a grant under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PNGOPRA, under conditions acceptable to  the Bank,
and which shall include the condition set forth in paragraph 3 (c)



(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

      (f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the HTPL
Financial Management Agreement, the OPIC Subsidiary Agreement, the
PNGOPRA Subsidiary Agreement, in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the HTPL
Financial Management Agreement or the OPIC Subsidiary Agreement or
the PNGOPRA Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                   Financial and Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof; and (ii) cause HTPL to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
                 paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                 the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                 in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                 consistently applied, by independent auditors
                 acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                 any case not later than six months after the end
                 of each such year, the report of such audit by
                 said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                 the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                 concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                 thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                 reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report



                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause OPIC and PNGOPRA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial conditions
of OPIC and PNGOPRA, respectively.

      (b)   The Borrower shall cause OPIC and PNGOPRA, respectively,
to:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts and financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
                  shall from time to time reasonably request.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, after completion of the
Project, make funds available to Smallholders under the same terms
and conditions as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement for purposes of maintenance of the Smallholder
plantings established under Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project until
such planting reach maturity.

                             ARTICLE V

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of HTPL or OPIC or PNGOPRA or for the suspension of the operations
of any of them; and

      (b)   any of the parties to the HTPL Financial Management
Agreement, the OPIC Subsidiary Agreement, and the PNGOPRA Subsidiary
Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the respective Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified namely
that the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:



      (a)   the HTPL Financial Management Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and HTPL;

      (b)   the OPIC Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and OPIC;

      (c)   OPIC has appointed a General Secretary, a Project
Accountant and a Field Project Manager as set forth in paragraph 9
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;

      (d)   the Borrower has established the National Oro Project
Management Committee, referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions thereof, and the
Committee has held its initial meeting; and

      (e)   the Borrower has established the Provincial Oro Project
Coordination Committee, referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions thereof, and the
Committee has held its initial meeting.

      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the HTPL Financial Management Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and HTPL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and HTPL in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   that the OPIC Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and OPIC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and OPIC in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Department of Finance and Planning
            Post Office Wards Strip
            Waigani, N. C. D.
            Papua New Guinea

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  TREASURER                 NE 23331
                  Boroko

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

             Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)



                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                        By /s/ Margaret M. Taylor
                                         Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific

                             SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Civil works:                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
    (a)  Part B of               800,000        90% of local
         the Project                            expenditures

    (b)  Part C of               300,000
         the Project

    (c)  Other Parts          12,100,000
         of the Project

(2) Equipment, furniture,                       100% of foreign
    vehicles, and related                       expenditures and
    transport services:                         90% of local
                                                expenditures
    (a)  Part C of the           100,000
         Project

    (b)  Part D.2 of the          80,000
         Project

    (c)  Other Parts of          700,000
         the Project,
         except Part A.6
         of the Project

(3) Agricultural inputs        1,700,000        100%
    (except planting
    materials) and agri-
    cultural equipment
    under Part A.1 and A.2
    of the Project, and



    related transport
    services

(4) Planting materials         2,000,000        100%
    under Part A.1 and
    A.2 of the Project

(5) Salaries and travel                         90% in FY 1993
    expenses for:                               and FY 1994;
                                                75% in FY 1995,
    (a)  incremental           1,300,000        FY 1996, and
         DAL staff                              FY 1997; and
                                                25% thereafter

    (b)  incremental             620,000
         DEC staff
         under Part C
         of the Project

    (c)  incremental           1,950,000
         OPIC staff

    (d)  incremental             230,000
         PNGOPRA staff
         under Part D
         of the Project

(6) Rental of staff                             100%
    houses under:

    (a)  Part C of               120,000
         the Project

    (b)  Part D.1 of             270,000
         the Project

(7) Maintenance:                                90% in FY 1993
                                                and FY 1994;
    (a)  Roads under             390,000        75% in FY 1995,
         Parts A of                             FY 1996, and
         the Project                            FY 1997; and
                                                25% thereafter

    (b)  Roads under             600,000
         Part B of
         the Project

    (c)  Equipment and           240,000
         vehicles under
         Parts A.3, A.5,
         D.1 and D.3 of
         the Project

    (d)  Equipment and           380,000
         vehicles under
         Part C of the
         Project

    (e)  Vehicles under           30,000
         Part D.2 of
         the Project
(8)  Consultants’                 300,000        100%
     services

(9)  Training:                                   100%

     (a) Part C of                 40,000
         the Project

     (b) Part D.2 of               30,000
         the Project



     (c) Other Parts               20,000
         of the Project

(10) Unallocated                2,700,000
                                ---------

     TOTAL                     27,000,000
                               ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and

      (c)   the term "incremental staff" means the staff employed in
accordance with Parts A.3, C and D of the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

      (b)   expenditures under Categories (1)(b), (2)(a), (5)(b),
(6)(a), (7)(c) and (9)(a), until the Borrower has employed a
conservation project manager and a principal research officer as set
forth in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   expenditures under Categories (2)(b), (5)(d), (7)(d) and
(9)(b), until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the Borrower and PNGOPRA shall
have entered into the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section
3.01 (e) of this Agreement, and (ii) all payments due by HOPPL to
PNGOPRA which are overdue by 60 days or more, for research carried
out by PNGOPRA on behalf of HOPPL, shall have been made.

                             SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase agricul-
tural production and exports, (ii) to provide employment oppor-
tunities, (iii) to generate income for poor farmers, and (iv) to
maintain income for existing smallholders, through environmentally
sound expansion of oil palm in Oro Province.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Smallholder Development in the Project Area

1.    Establishment of about 2,500 hectares of oil palm in the
Popondetta area and of about 1,000 hectares of oil palm in the
Kokoda area.

2.    Establishment of about 3,000 hectares of oil palm on the
reserve land of about 1,500 existing oil palm blocks in the
Popondetta area.

3.    Strengthening OPIC’s oil palm extension services in the
Project Area including:

      (a)   employment and training of about 27 additional extension
staff;



      (b)   construction and maintenance of about 20 staff houses
and office facilities; and

      (c)   acquisition and maintenance of about 26 vehicles and
agricultural equipment.

4.    Construction, upgrading, and maintenance of about 80 km of
access roads and about 370 km of harvesting roads in the Project
Area.

5.    Construction of an office for the Oro Province Oil Palm
Smallholders Association in the vicinity of Popondetta;
construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of classrooms, health
posts and teachers’ houses in the Project Area; and acquisition of
related furniture and equipment.
6.    Rehabilitation or maintenance of rural police stations and
staff houses in the Project Area.

Part B:     Main Road Improvement

      Upgrading of sections of the Isevene-Kokoda national highway
to meet the requirements of the traffic of FFB transport trucks, and
maintenance of such highway.

Part C:     Environmental Protection

      Carrying out of conservation activities in the Project Area to
ensure that smallholder oil palm development in the Project Area
does not endanger the Queen Alexandra Birdwing butterfly
(Ornithopera Alexandrae) and its ecosystem, including:

      (a)   employment and training of about 16 additional field
staff for DEC;

      (b)   upgrading of office space for DEC in the Project Area,
and construction of about 4 staff houses, and offices and
demonstration facilities for conservation activities; acquisition of
furniture; and acquisition and maintenance of two vehicles, and
scientific, field and office equipment for DEC in the Project Area;
and

      (c)   provision of rental staff houses and financing of
incremental operating expenses of DEC in the Project Area.

Part D:     Institutional Strengthening

1.    Strengthening DAL’s capacity for policy formulation and
project preparation in the tree crop sub-sector, including:

      (a)   employment of about 9 additional staff for DAL’s Policy
and Planning Division, and acquisition of related equipment and
furniture; and

      (b)   provision of rental staff houses and financing of
incremental operating expenses for (a) above.

2.    Employment and training of additional staff by PNGOPRA for
carrying out of adaptive research for purposes of the Project,
including acquisition and maintenance of equipment and a vehicle,
and financing of incremental salaries and incremental operating
expenses.

3.    Strengthening the capacity of OPIC to monitor the
implementation of smallholder oil palm development schemes,
including:

      (a)   employment of two additional staff at OPIC’s
headquarters;

      (b)   acquisition of office equipment and furniture;

      (c)   financing of incremental operating expenses; and



      (d)   provision of technical assistance.

Part E:     Studies

      Carrying out of studies in the tree crop sub-sector including
the identification and preparation of future tree crop projects.

                           *     *     *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (Expressed in dollars)*

On each March 15 and September 15

      beginning September 15, 1997
      through March 15, 2012                    900,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                       Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity

                             SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services



Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods, related transport services, and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.    House and office furniture, workshop equipment, and related
transport services, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.

3.    Fertilizers, tools and herbicides, and related transport
services, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Planting material may be procured through direct contracting
with HOPPL under procedures acceptable to the Bank.

5.    Maintenance of roads and vehicles may be carried out by force
account, under procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.



                             SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

1.    In carrying out Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall make oil palm planting materials available to Smallholders as
follows: (a) half of a Smallholder’s requirements shall be made
available on a grant basis; and (b) half of a Smallholder’s
requirements shall be made available on a credit basis in accordance
with paragraph 2 of this Schedule.

2.    In carrying out Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall make Sub-loans available to Smallholders for the establishment
of new blocks of oil palm for a period not exceeding 10 years
including a grace period of 3 years. Interest shall be charged for
the amounts withdrawn and outstanding at the rate of 8% per annum.
Interest shall be capitalized during the grace period. Payments of
principal and interest shall be made in accordance with paragraph 3
of this Schedule.

3.    For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall cause OPIC to enter into Smallholder Sub-loan agreements with
the Smallholders on behalf of the Borrower, such agreements to
provide, inter alia, that the Smallholder shall be required to
deliver to HTPL, at farm gate, fresh fruit bunches of oil palm, 30%,
or such other percentage as the Bank may agree, of the proceeds of
the sale of which shall be used for repayment of their debt
obligations to the Borrower.

4.    In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
regularly monitor, through DAL, the application of the Borrower’s
pricing formula for FFB, agreed between the Borrower and the oil
palm industry.

5.    The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until
completion of the Project, a National Oro Project Management
Committee, responsible for the coordination of the planning,
management and implementation of the Project. Its members shall
include, among others, the following:

      (a)   the Secretary of DAL as Chairman, or the Secretary’s
            nominee;

      (b)   the Secretaries of the Departments of Finance and
            Planning, Works, Lands and Physical Planning,
            Environment and Conservation, or their nominees;

      (c)   the Secretaries of the National Departments of Education
            and of Health, or their nominees;

      (d)   the Provincial Secretary of Oro Province, or the
            Secretary’s nominee;

      (e)   representatives of HOPPL, HTPL, and PNGOPRA; and

      (f)   the General Secretary of OPIC as Executive Officer.

6.    The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until
completion of the Project, a Provincial Oro Project Coordination
Committee, responsible for the coordination of the activities under
the Project at the Provincial level. Its members shall include,
among others, the following:

      (a)   the Field Project Manager of OPIC as Chairman;

      (b)   the Provincial Secretary of Oro Province, or the
            Secretary’s nominee;

      (c)   representatives of HOPPL, HTPL and PNGOPRA;

      (d)   representatives of the National Departments of Works,



            Lands and Physical Planning, and Environment and
            Conservation in Oro Province; and

      (e)   representatives of the provincial divisions of Primary
            Industries, Education and Health in Oro Province.

7.    For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, and thereafter maintain until completion of
the Project, a conservation project manager, with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

8.    For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, and thereafter maintain for at least three
years, a principal research officer, with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

9.    The Borrower shall cause OPIC, in carrying out Part D.3 of the
Project, to employ and thereafter maintain until completion of the
Project:

      (a)   a General Secretary;

      (b)   a Field Project Manager; and

      (c)   a Project Accountant;

all with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.

10.   The Borrower shall cause OPIC, not later than December 31,
1993, to retain until completion of the Project, the services of a
development field supervisor, with qualifications, experience, and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.

11.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to cause HOPPL
to establish, not later than December 31, 1993, an environmentally
adequate landfill for the disposal of its non-biodegradable solid
waste in a location away from water courses.

12.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to cause HOPPL
to upgrade, not later than December 31, 1994, its effluent treatment
facilities at its palm oil factory in the vicinity of Popondetta.

                             SCHEDULE 6

                      Conditions of the HTPL
                  Financial Management Agreement

1.    HTPL shall be responsible for the financial management of the
accounts of Smallholders, including retaining 30%, or such other
percentage as the Bank may agree, of the proceeds of the sale of
Smallhoders FFB for repayment of the Smallholders’ debt obligations
to the Borrower.

2.    HTPL shall carry out the procurement of planting materials,
fertilizers, agro-chemicals and tools.

3.    HTPL shall purchase the FFB from the Smallholder plantings at
a purchase price determined on the basis of the FFB pricing formula
agreed between the Borrower and the oil palm industry.

4.    HTPL shall transport and sell the FFB to HOPPL.

5.    To ensure that Smallholders of existing oil palm blocks have
sufficient funds for the maintenance of their oil palm, HTPL shall
enter into agreements with such Smallholders to deduct about ten
Kina from their monthly FFB sales income and maintain it in escrow
accounts until sufficient funds have been accumulated to finance the
oil palm block maintenance for the following year.

                             SCHEDULE 7



                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required forthe Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the



Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.