World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3541 TU

                          Loan Agreement

                 (Employment and Training Project)

                              between

                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                      Dated February 1, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3541 TU

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "IIBK" means the Turkish Employment Agency of the
Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, or any successor thereto;

      (b)   "SIS" means the Borrower’s State Institute of
Statistics, or any successor thereto;

      (c)   "MSK" means the Borrower’s Occupational Standards
Commission, or any successor thereto;

      (d)   "DSPW" means the Borrower’s General Directorate for the
Status and Problems of Women, or any successor thereto;

      (e)   "Project Operations Manual" means the Project Operations
Manual of the Borrower dated October 30, 1992, as the same may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;

      (f)   "MEKSA" means the Foundation for the Promotion of
Vocational Training and Small Industries, a foundation for public
benefit established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
and

      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in a freely convertible currency, acceptable to
the Bank, a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per



annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III



                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, economic and employment
development practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, through, inter alia, adequate annual budgetary allocations,
facilities, staff, services and other resources required for the
Project.

     (b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of IIBK, SIS, MEKSA, DSPW
and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)    ensure that the records and accounts referred to
                   in paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as
                   soon as available, but in any case not later
                   than six months after the end of each such year,
                   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                   have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)    furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank
                   such other information concerning said records
                   and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                   shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;



          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                            Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Basbakanlik Hazine Ve
              Disticaret Mustesarligi
            Inonu Bulvari
            Emek/Ankara
            Republic of Turkey

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MALIYE-HAZINE           821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                           821-42689 (ANK-TR)

                                           Rapifax:

                                           90-4-2128737

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY



                         By /s/ Mahfi Egilmez
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Michael Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia

                           SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Equipment,                11,420,000      100% of foreign
      vehicles                                  expenditures,
      and materials                             100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 90%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally

(2)   Consultants’              19,440,000      100%
      services and
      staff training

(3)   Job-insertion             27,000,000      65%
      and self-
      employment
      training

(4)   Unallocated                9,140,000
                                __________

      TOTAL                     67,000,000
                                ==========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.



                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to promote productive
employment through improved labor-market efficiency.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     IIBK

1.    Design and carrying out of a job-insertion and self-employment
training program to facilitate the absorption of unemployed workers
in productive employment.

2.    Development and implementation of a plan for the
diversification of employment services with adequate safeguards to
protect the interest of job applicants.

3.    Design and carrying out of a program to develop and implement:
(a) improved (i) employment and counselling services in labor
offices, and (ii) counselling services in selected educational
institutions; and (b) a plan for the automation of employment
services.

4.    Provision of technical assistance, staff training, vehicles
and equipment and materials to be utilized in the overall
coordination and supervision of Project execution and in the
carrying out of this Part of the Project.

Part B:     SIS

1.    Development and carrying out of a program to improve the
coverage, quality, timeliness and accessibility of labor market
data, including the establishment of a labor-market information data
base and the undertaking of research and dissemination of
information on labor-market developments and trends.

2.    Provision of technical assistance, staff training and
equipment and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of this
Part of the Project.

Part C:MSK

1.    Establishment of a fully operational research and technical
service unit to be located within MEKSA and be responsible for
coordinating and supervising the development of occupational
standards and certification criteria, including the provision
therefor of work programs and processes and policies, procedures and
facilities for the development of occupational analysis, testing and
certification standards.

2.    Provision of technical assistance, staff training and
equipment and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of this
Part of the Project.

Part D:     DSPW

1.    Development and carrying out of a policy and action research
program to document existing situation of women’s employment and
training, identify the ways and means of improving women’s access to
productive employment and women’s productivity and earnings, and
disseminate information to promote women’s employment.

2.    Provision of technical assistance, seminars and publications
and equipment and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of
this Part of the Project.

                               * * *



      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 1 and July 1

      beginning July 1, 1998
      through   July 1, 2009               2,790,000

      on January 1, 2010                   2,830,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:

Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity

More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.



Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Equipment and vehicles, other than those to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part C.2 hereof,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.

2.     Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

3.    Books and materials, may be procured under contracts awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

      Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.



                           SCHEDULE 5

                      Implementation Program

      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Overall Project Implementation

1.    Overall responsibility for the coordination and supervision of
the carrying out of the Project shall be assigned by the Borrower to
IIBK. For this purpose and for the purpose of facilitating the
efficient carrying out by IIBK of its other activities under the
Project, the Borrower shall ensure that IIBK shall maintain a
Project coordination unit, with staff and other resources and terms
of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

2.    The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with the requirements and other details
set forth or referred to in the Project Operations Manual; (b)
employ or cause to be employed consultants with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference, and on the basis of a time
schedule, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, in order to
assist in the carrying out of the Project; (c) ensure that duly
qualified counterpart staff in adequate numbers are appointed to
work with the consultants to be employed under the Project by the
time such consultants are so employed; and (d) ensure that the staff
training, including fellowship training, under the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with programs, including time-schedules
for the implementation thereof, and criteria for the selection of
candidates thereunder, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

B.    Part A of the Project

1.    (a)   Part A (1) of the Project will be carried out by IIBK’s
branch offices under the coordination of IIBK’s Employment and
Vocational Rehabilitation Department and on the basis of annual job-
insertion and self-employment training plans prepared by each of
IIBK’s branch offices in accordance with criteria agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

      (b)   In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part A (1) of
the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the training thereunder
shall be carried out in accordance with annual training plans: (i)
prepared by IIBK’s branch office; (ii) endorsed by the local
employment council, comprising representatives of IIBK, local
employers and employees associations, local governmental authorities
and the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; and (iii) approved by the
national employment council, comprising representatives of IIBK,
national employers and employees associations and the Borrower’s
Ministry of Education and Ministry of Tourism.

2.    Part A (2) of the Project will be carried out through the
General Directorate of IIBK in consultation with a steering
committee comprising representatives of IIBK and national employers
and employees associations, to be maintained by the Borrower under
terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. The
said steering committee will be responsible for the provision of
advice to IIBK in the design and implementation of Part A (2) of the
Project and in the carrying out of a study to review and identify
alternative strategies for diversifying employment services,
including strategies for expanding the role of the private sector in
providing such services. The Borrower shall ensure that the said
study shall be initiated, by September 1, 1993 and carried out,
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and a copy thereof is
furnished to the Bank promptly upon its completion. The Borrower
shall ensure that the results and recommendations of said study are
adequately discussed, by September 1, 1994, at a suitable national
seminar attended by representatives of the steering committee and
other entities concerned with the development and implementation of
national development strategies. Thereafter, the Borrower shall, by
December 31, 1994, develop and initiate the implementation of a plan



for the phased diversification of employment services on the basis
of the conclusions and recommendations of the said study and the
Bank’s comments thereon, taking into consideration the views of the
participants in the said seminar.

3.    (a)   Part A (3) (a) of the Project will be carried out by
IIBK’s Employment and Vocational Training Department on the basis of
terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

      (b)   In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part A (3)
(a) (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that no
stipulation of gender preferences shall be included in IIBK’s job
vacancy listings; (ii) ensure that IIBK shall complete, by December
31, 1993, the staffing of its three in-service training centers in
a manner agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and maintain a
career information unit, with staff and other resources and terms of
reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to be
responsible for the development of policies and procedures for
employment counseling and job-applicant screening; and (iii)
maintain a career information advisory committee, chaired by IIBK
and comprising representatives of national employers and employees
associations, SIS, the Borrower’s Council of Higher Education, and
the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, to act as a consultative body,
under terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
on national standards for career information, vocational assessment
and career employment counseling.

      (c)   In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part A (3)
(a) (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain suitable
arrangements between the IIBK and the Borrower’s Ministry of
Education for ensuring efficient cooperation between IIBK and said
Ministry in the development and introduction of career guidance
counseling in public secondary schools.

      (d)   Part A (3) (b) of the Project will be carried out by
IIBK’s Data Processing Department through a specialized automation
management team to be maintained by IIBK with staff and other
resources and terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.

C.    Part B of the Project

1.    Part B of the Project will be carried out by SIS with the
assistance of IIBK under arrangements agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.

2.    In order to facilitate the carrying out by SIS of its
activities under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
a labor-market information advisory board, with membership and terms
of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to advise SIS
on the design and management of the labor-market information data
base to be established by SIS under said Part of the Project.

D.    Part C of the Project

1.    Part C of the Project will be carried out by MSK under
arrangements agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to be
maintained by the Borrower among IIBK, MSK and MEKSA.

2.    In order to facilitate the development of suitable
occupational standards and certification criteria by the research
and technical service unit to be established under said Part of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain an occupational standards
commission, comprising representatives of IIBK and national
employers and employees associations and with resources and terms of
reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to provide
policy guidance to, and oversee the performance of, the said unit.

3.    In accordance with its objective of improving the operations
of MSK and its research and technical service unit, the Borrower
shall ensure that: (a) MSK shall carry out, by September 1, 1994, a
review, under the terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and



the Bank, of the status and operations of MSK and its said unit with
a view towards assessing the feasibility of reorganizing MSK,
including its said unit, as fully or partially self-financing
foundation by the expected date of the completion of the Project;
(b) the results and recommendations of said review are discussed
with the Bank promptly upon the completion of said review; and (c)
if such review establishes the feasibility of such reorganization of
MSK and its said unit, develop and thereafter, implement a plan to
so reorganize MSK and its said unit based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said review and the Bank’s comments thereon.

E.    Part D of the Project

1.    Part D of the Project will be carried out by DSPW with the
assistance of IIBK under arrangements agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.

2.    In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part D of the
Project and the achievements of its objectives, the Borrower shall:
(i) ensure all such provision of staff and other resources to DSPW
as are required for the efficient carrying out of Part D of the
Project; and (ii) maintain a research advisory committee, comprising
representatives of IIBK, SIS, MEKSA, DSPW, governmental and non-
governmental agencies and organizations and other parties interested
in the promotion of women’s employment, and with resources and terms
of reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to advise
DSPW in the course of the performance of its activities under Part
D of the Project.

                            SCHEDULE 6

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.



           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.



      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.