World Bank Document


                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3577 IN

                          Loan Agreement

              (Powergrid System Development Project)

                              between

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                                and

              POWER GRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED

                       Dated March 23, 1993

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3577 IN

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POWER GRID
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (the Borrower).

      WHEREAS: (A) India, acting by its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and

      (b)   in Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:

      (a)   "Eastern Region" means the Eastern Region of India,
comprising the States of Bihar, Orissa, Sikkim and West Bengal;

      (b)   "Western Region" means the Western Region of India,
comprising the States of GOA, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra, and Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and
Daman and Diu;

      (c)   "Southern Region" means the Southern Region of India,
comprising the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil
Nadu, and the Union Territory of Pondicherry;

      (d)   "North-Eastern Region" means the North-Eastern Region of
India, comprising the States of Arunchal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur,
Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Tripura;

      (e)   "SEB" means a State Electricity Board;

      (f)   "RLDC" means a Regional Load Dispatch Center;

      (g)   "Existing Liens" means the liens referred to in Schedule
6 to this Agreement;

      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (i)   "Rs." means Rupees in the currency of the Guarantor.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the State



Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.

      Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.

            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."

                  "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period



            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."

      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.

      Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994, and June 30, 1994, review with the Guarantor and the Bank the
findings and recommendations of the Technical Assistance under Part
C (i) and C (iii), respectively, of the Project, and shall
thereafter implement the agreed recommendations in accordance with
time-bound action plans satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.

      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1996, in consultation with the Bank and the Guarantor, carry out a
mid-term review of the Project, including an assessment of the
Borrower’s overall performance.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994, enter into commercial contracts on transmission services with
the SEBs.

                            ARTICLE IV

             Management and Operations of the Borrower

      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.

      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.

                             ARTICLE V

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.



      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) and the records
                  and accounts for the Special Account for each
                  financial year audited, in accordance with appro-
                  priate auditing principles consistently applied,
                  by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than seven months after the
                  end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                  its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;

            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the financial
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

            (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such financial year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for the
Bank’s review and comments, not later than December 31 of each year,
starting December 31, 1993, its financial projections, including its
investment program and financing plan.

      Section 5.03. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
maintain its accounts receivable at a level not exceeding an amount
equivalent to the proceeds of its transmission services for the two
preceding months.

      Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all such measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure and levels of its tariffs)
as shall be required to produce, starting with the fiscal year
beginning April 1, 1993, funds from internal cash generation
equivalent to not less than twenty percent (20%) of the annual
average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred or expected
to be incurred during the previous, current and following fiscal
year.



      (a)   For the purposes of this paragraph:

         (i)      the term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:

                  (A)   the sum of gross revenues from all sources
                        related to the Borrower’s operations,
                        contributions in aid of construction, net
                        non-operating income and any reduction in
                        non-cash working capital; and

                  (B)   the sum of all expenses of the Borrower’s
                        operations, including maintenance and
                        administration (excluding depreciation and
                        other non-cash operating charges), interest
                        and other charges on debt (excluding
                        interest financed under a loan contract),
                        repayment of loans (including sinking fund
                        payments, if any), all taxes or payments in
                        lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and other
                        cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                        non-cash working capital and any other cash
                        outflows other than cash expenditures
                        related to the operations of the Borrower;

        (ii)      the term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed or
                  capital assets, including interest charged to
                  construction, related to the operations of the
                  Borrower;

       (iii)      "gross revenue" means the revenue earned and
                  received for the services provided by the
                  Borrower;

        (iv)      "expenses" means the sum of all operating
                  expenses, taxes on income and profits,
                  depreciation and interest charged on all
                  debentures, bonds and loans;

         (v)      "operating expenses" means the cost of operation
                  and maintenance, service management and
                  administrative expenses, and all taxes accruing
                  during the financial year, other than taxes on
                  income and profits of the Borrower;

        (vi)      "taxes on income and profits" consists of income
                  taxes and other levies accrued by the Borrower
                  according to the provisions of any legislation or
                  regulation applicable in this respect;

       (vii)      "depreciation" means the applicable provision
                  derived pursuant to the requirements stipulated
                  in the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, as amended
                  from time to time;

      (viii)      "interest charged on all debentures, bonds and
                  loans" means all interest, excluding interest
                  during construction, accrued by the Borrower
                  during the financial year and all other charges
                  on debt.

      Section 5.05. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 4 to 1.

      (b)   For purposes of this Section:

         (i)      The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.



        (ii)      Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
                  extent, the amount of such debt has become
                  outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
                  or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
                  agreement, on the date the agreement providing
                  for such guarantee has been entered into but only
                  to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
                  outstanding.

       (iii)      The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                  unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                  reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
                  specific liabilities.

        (iv)      Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                  shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                  currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                  another currency, such valuation shall be made on
                  the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                  exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                  time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                  purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                  absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.

      Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and to the priorities
existing on charges created to the date of this Agreement, create in
favor of the Bank no later than September 30, 1993, an equitable
mortgage/charge in such form as the Bank may reasonably require to
constitute by way of security for the Loan:

            (i)   a first specific charge upon all of its immovable
                  assets together with all rights and interests
                  appertaining to or necessary for said assets to
                  which the Borrower is now or may hereafter become
                  beneficially entitled, such mortgage to rank in
                  point of security equally and ratably with
                  mortgages/charges upon the said assets in respect
                  of Existing Liens but prior to any other lien
                  upon the assets of the Borrower, now existing or
                  hereafter created; and

            (ii)  a first specific charge upon all movable assets
                  of the Borrower, now existing or subsequently
                  added thereto, together with all rights and
                  interests appertaining to or necessary for said
                  assets to which the Borrower is now or may
                  hereafter become beneficially entitled such
                  charge to rank in point of security equally and
                  ratably with the Existing Liens upon the said
                  assets but prior to any other liens upon such
                  assets, now existing or hereafter created.

      (b)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.03 (b) of the
General Conditions, it is agreed that the Borrower may:

            (i)   (A)   create liens, ranking in point of security
                        equally and ratably the first specific
                        charge referred to in sub-section (a) (i)
                        of this Section, upon all the assets
                        mentioned in said sub-section together with
                        all rights and interests appertaining to or
                        necessary for said assets to which the
                        Borrower is now or may hereafter become
                        beneficially entitled; and

                  (B)   create liens, ranking in point of security



                        equally and ratably with the first
                        specific/floating charge referred to in
                        sub-section (a) (ii) of this Section, upon
                        all or any assets of the Borrower referred
                        to in said sub-section;

                  for securing debts or borrowings up to an
                  aggregate under sub-paragraphs (A) and (B) of
                  this paragraph, of Rs. 60 billion or such other
                  amount acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of
                  financing or refinancing capital investments
                  including the investments required for the
                  Project; and

            (ii)  create liens, including hypothecations, ranking
                  in priority to the security provided for in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section on current assets
                  (stores, spare parts and fuel, including coal)
                  securing debts or borrowings maturing not more
                  than one year (at a time) from their respective
                  dates and incurred to bankers in the ordinary
                  course of business, in an amount not exceeding in
                  the aggregate at any one time Rs. 2 billion or
                  such other amount acceptable to the Bank.

      (c)   The Borrower undertakes that no subsidiary (if any) of
the Borrower shall at any time without the consent of the Bank
create any lien on its undertakings or assets (including uncalled
capital) or any part thereof otherwise than in favor of the Borrower
and that all liens created by any subsidiary of the Borrower in
favor of the Borrower shall be retained by the Borrower and shall
not be sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of by it and that it
will not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any shares for the
time being held by it in any subsidiary.

      (d)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   take all necessary steps and shall require all
                  other necessary parties to take all necessary
                  steps to ensure that all liens, including the
                  Existing Liens, outstanding upon the assets and
                  all liens upon such assets to be created under
                  this Section 5.06 shall be discharged or be
                  varied to the reasonable satisfaction of the Bank
                  so as to ensure that full effect may be given to
                  the foregoing provisions of this Section; and

            (ii)  obtain all necessary consents for the valid
                  creation of aforesaid security and shall duly
                  register or file, or cause to be duly registered
                  or filed, as necessary, such security in
                  accordance with the Companies Act, 1956 of the
                  Guarantor together with such other documents as
                  may be necessary or proper in order to render the
                  same fully effective in accordance with its
                  terms.

      (e)   The Borrower shall secure all necessary permissions from
the Guarantor to enable it to carry out its obligations under this
Section.

      (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Section, the Borrower shall, if required by the Bank, convert the
equitable mortgage to be created in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, into a legal mortgage in English form by way of a
Trust Deed in favor of such trustees and in such form as the Bank
may reasonably require to constitute by way of security for the Loan
substantially in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this
Section 5.06. To this end, the Borrower shall execute in favor of
the Bank an irrevocable power of attorney authorizing the Bank,
inter alia, to execute on behalf of the Borrower a legal mortgage in
English form as aforesaid.



                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Borrower amended to the date of this
Agreement, without the consent of the Bank, which would materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower, or its ability to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement; and

      (b)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would materially and adversely affect the
conduct of its business or its financial condition or the efficiency
of its management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.

                            ARTICLE VII

                            Termination

            Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)

      For the Borrower:

            Power Grid Corporation of India Limited
            Hemkunt Chambers (10th Floor)
            89 Nehru Place, New Delhi  110019
            India

            Cable address:                      Telex:

                  NATGRID                       66138
                  New Delhi                     65949



      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                        By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia

                        POWER GRID CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED

                        By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Equipment and            280,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials                                 expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

(2)   Erection and              25,000,000      70%
      installation,
      including civil
      works

(3)   Consultants’              15,000,000      100%
      services and
      training

(4)   Unallocated               30,000,000
                               ___________

      TOTAL                    350,000,000
                               ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and

      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the



territory of the Borrower.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $35,000,000
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after March 31, 1992.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist India in
restructuring the power transmission sub-sector, improving
coordination in system operations and promoting inter-regional and
inter-state power trading through regulatory, tariff and
institutional reforms; (ii) support the Borrower’s institutional
development and help introduce satisfactory financial performance
targets and commercial arrangements; and (iii) assist the Borrower
in the development of modern system coordination and control
facilities and reinforcement of its transmission system.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     System Coordination and Control

            (i)   The implementation of a coordination and control
system for the Southern Region, consisting of a regional load
dispatch center in Bangalore, State of Karnataka, four SEB load
dispatch centers, about fourteen area control centers and about 300
associated remote terminal units in the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of
Pondicherry; together with related communication facilities.

            (ii)  The preparation of coordination and control system
projects for each of the Eastern, Western and North-Eastern Regions,
consisting of regional load dispatch centers, SEB load dispatch
centers, area control centers and associated remote terminal units.

Part B:     Transmission System Reinforcement

            (i)   The construction of Vindhyachal-Dhule transmission
lines to evacuate the full output of the Vindhyachal power station
and to strengthen the Western Region grid;

           (ii)   The construction of Ramagundam-Hyderabad
transmission line to help utilize the interconnection between the
Western and Southern regions and to strengthen the Southern Region
grid;

          (iii)   The completion of transmission lines and
substations under the on-going Central Power Transmission Project
financed by the Bank under Loan No. 2283-IN and the Rihand Power
Transmission Project financed by the Bank under Loan No. 2555-IN;

           (iv)   The provision of modern interactive transmission
system planning software and related hardware; training in the use
of these facilities; preparation of a long-term transmission plan;
carrying out of pre-feasibility studies and preparation for
implementation of selected emerging major transmission system
improvement projects; and

            (v)   The installation of tariff meters.

Part C:     Technical Assistance

            The provision of consultants’ services to assist in the
implementation of a reform program for power transmission and system
operations including:



         (i)      the Borrower’s institutional development and
refinement of its development plans;

        (ii)      utility cooperation arrangements with a well
established grid company, on coordination of system operations,
operations of a power pool settlement system and transmission system
operations; and

       (iii)      studies on (a) bulk power tariffs (b) transmission
tariffs and (c) transmission regulation.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                            SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*

      December 1, 1998                             6,545,000.00
      June 1, 1999                                 6,785,000.00
      December 1, 1999                             7,040,000.00
      June 1, 2000                                 7,300,000.00
      December 1, 2000                             7,570,000.00
      June 1, 2001                                 7,855,000.00
      December 1, 2001                             8,145,000.00
      June 1, 2002                                 8,445,000.00
      December 1, 2002                             8,760,000.00
      June 1, 2003                                 9,085,000.00
      December 1, 2003                             9,425,000.00
      June 1, 2004                                 9,775,000.00
      December 1, 2004                            10,135,000.00
      June 1, 2005                                10,515,000.00
      December 1, 2005                            10,905,000.00
      June 1, 2006                                11,310,000.00
      December 1, 2006                            11,730,000.00
      June 1, 2007                                12,165,000.00
      December 1, 2007                            12,615,000.00
      June 1, 2008                                13,085,000.00
      December 1, 2008                            13,570,000.00
      June 1, 2009                                14,075,000.00
      December 1, 2009                            14,600,000.00
      June 1, 2010                                15,140,000.00
      December 1, 2010                            15,705,000.00
      June 1, 2011                                16,285,000.00
      December 1, 2011                            16,890,000.00
      June 1, 2012                                17,520,000.00
      December 1, 2012                            18,170,000.00
      June 1, 2013                                18,855,000.00

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                         Premium

                                       The interest rate (expressed
                                       as a percentage per annum)
                                       applicable to the Loan on



                                       the day of prepayment multi-
                                       plied by:

Not more than three years                          0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                          0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                            0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                         0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                         0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                          1.00
      maturity

                            SCHEDULE 4

               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:      International Competitive Bidding

      Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    (a)   With respect to each contract, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.



2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist in carrying out of Parts A, B (iv) and
C (i) and (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, theBorrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.



            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.



      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                                  SCHEDULE 6

                                Existing Liens

                                          Amount of Debt      Scheduled Date
      Item                                (Rs. in Crores)     of Final Payment

1.    Life Insurance Corporation              21.66             July 2006
      of India Loans

2.    Powergrid Bonds                        200.00             March 2002

3.    Neyveli Lignite Corporation            160.00             December 1996
      Bonds

4.    National Hydro Power                   185.00             March 2002
      Corporation of India Bonds