World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3723 RO

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

                 (Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project)

                                  between

                                  ROMANIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 1, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3723 RO

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1994, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

    (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment Bank
a Loan (the EIB Loan) in an aggregate amount equivalent to about $52,000,000
to assist in financing of Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and EIB;

    (C)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by PETROM R.A. (PETROM),
Part C of the Project will be carried out by ROMGAZ R.A. (ROMGAZ) and Part
D of the Project will be carried out by CONPET S.A. (CONPET), all with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement and to ROMGAZ the proceeds of the EIB Loan as
provided in the EIB Loan Agreement; and

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement, in the PETROM Project Agreement between the Bank and
PETROM, in the ROMGAZ Project Agreement between the Bank and ROMGAZ and in
the CONPET Project Agreement between the Bank and CONPET, all of even date
herewith;

    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
    Agreement."

    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

    (a)   "PETROM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PETROM R.A. (PETROM) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the PETROM Project Agreement;

    (b)   "ROMGAZ Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ROMGAZ R.A. (ROMGAZ) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the ROMGAZ Project Agreement;

    (c)   "CONPET Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and CONPET S.A. (CONPET) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the CONPET Project Agreement;

    (d)   "Project Agreements" means the PETROM Project Agreement, the
ROMGAZ Project Agreement and the CONPET Project Agreement;

    (e)   "PETROM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PETROM pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the PETROM Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

    (f)   "ROMGAZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ROMGAZ pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the ROMGAZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
    (g)   "CONPET Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CONPET pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the CONPET Subsidiary Loan Agreement;

    (h)   "the Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the PETROM Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the ROMGAZ Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the CONPET Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;

    (i)   "PETROM Charter", "ROMGAZ Charter" and CONPET Charter" mean,
respectively, Government Decision No. 23 of January 10, 1991, pertaining to
the establishment and operations of PETROM, Government Decision No. 16 of



January 10, 1991, pertaining to the establishment and operations of ROMGAZ
and Government Decision No. 1213 of November 20, 1990, pertaining to the
establishment and operations of CONPET;

    (j)   "Petroleum Sector Strategy" means the Borrower’s strategy for the
restructuring and further development of its petroleum sector in line with
its policy for the establishment of a market-based economy and for the
promotion of private sector investments in said sector, whose outline is set
forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement;

    (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;

    (l)   "MIND" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Industries, or any
successor thereof; and

    (m)   "NAMR" means the indepedent national agency for mineral resources
to be established by the Borrower under Part A (1) of the Project.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred seventy five million six hundred thousand dollars
($175,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.

         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as



                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.

        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.

    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."

                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end:

          (i)   shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence
                and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                administrative, economic and financial practices, and shall
                provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                services and other resources required for the purpose; and

          (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
                cause PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET to perform in accordance
                with the provisions of the PETROM Project Agreement, the
                ROMGAZ Project Agreement and the CONPET Project Agreement,
                respectively, all the obligations of PETROM, ROMGAZ and
                CONPET therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
                all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
                services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                enable PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET to perform such
                obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
                action which would prevent or interfere with such
                performance.

    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) (i) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.



    (c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to PETROM,
ROMGAZ and CONPET under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET, respectively,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which
shall include the principal terms set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.

    (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.

    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of: (a) Part B of the Project shall be carried out
by PETROM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the PETROM Project Agreement; (b) Part
C of the Project shall be carried out by ROMGAZ pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the ROMGAZ Project Agreement; and (c) Part D of the Project shall be carried
out by CONPET pursuant to Section 2.03 of the CONPET Project Agreement.

                                ARTICLE IV

                       Financial and Other Covenants

    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out Part A of the Project or any subpart thereof.

    (b)   The Borrower shall:

          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;

         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and

        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.

    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;

         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;

        (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;



                and

         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.

    Section 4.02. In accordance with its policy to rationalize domestic
energy prices, the Borrower shall continue to maintain the producer prices,
as calculated and established in accordance with criteria and guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, of locally produced: (a) crude oil at levels
equivalent to the average FOB price level of similar quality crude oil; and
(b) natural gas at levels equivalent at least to the average FOB price level
of thermally equivalent imported fuel oil.

    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:

    (a)   carry out its Petroleum Sector Strategy with due diligence and
efficiency and at all times take all necessary action to achieve the
objectives thereof;

    (b)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of said Strategy and the achievement of the objectives thereof;

    (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comments, by
October 1 of each year, a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the said Strategy and
the measures recommended to sustain and further such progress based on the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section; and

    (d)   by December 1 of each year, update the said Strategy and
thereafter implement the measures required to ensure the achievement of the
objectives thereof, taking into consideration the conclusions and
recommendations of the reports prepared pursuant to paragraph (c) of this
Section and the Bank’s comments thereon.

    Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall take all necessary action on its part
to ensure that its departments, agencies and all entities owned or
controlled by it will settle their bills on account of oil and gas purchases
from PETROM and ROMGAZ, respectively, within a period of not more than three
months of the date of such bills.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

    (a)   PETROM, ROMGAZ or CONPET shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the PETROM Project Agreement, ROMGAZ Project Agreement or
CONPET Project Agreement, respectively.

    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that PETROM, ROMGAZ or CONPET will be able to perform its
obligations under the PETROM Project Agreement, ROMGAZ Project Agreement or
CONPET Project Agreement, respectively.

    (c)   The PETROM Charter, the ROMGAZ Charter or the CONPET Charter shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of PETROM, ROMGAZ or CONPET to perform
any of its obligations under the PETROM Project Agreement, the ROMGAZ
Project Agreement or the CONPET Project Agreement, respectively.

    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have



taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PETROM, ROMGAZ
or CONPET or for the suspension of its respective operations.

    (e)   The EIB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
December 31, 1994, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower or ROMGAZ establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate
funds for Part C of the Project are available to ROMGAZ from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and of ROMGAZ under the ROMGAZ Project Agreement.

    (f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                       of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                       financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                       cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                       pursuant to the terms thereof, or

                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                       prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
                (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.

    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and

    (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph (f) (ii) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

    (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
parties thereto; and

    (b)   the agency referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement has been duly established and staffed in accordance with the
provisions of said paragraph 2.

    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

    (a)   that the PETROM Project Agreement, the ROMGAZ Project Agreement
and the CONPET Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET, respectively, and are legally binding upon
PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET in accordance with their respective terms; and

    (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance



with their terms.

    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          17, Apolodor Street
          Bucharest
          Romania

                                         Telex:

                                           11239

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

                Cable address:           Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                       ROMANIA

                      By /s/ Vasile Puscas
                      Authorized Representative

                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                       By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                       Acting Regional Vice President
                       Europe and Central Asia



                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Consultants’               7,200,000             100%
    services and
    training for
    Part A of
    the Project

(2) Part B of
    the Project:

    (a)  Goods                25,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally

    (b)  Consultants’          5,000,000        100%
         services and
         training

    (c)  Unallocated           5,000,000

(3) Part C of
    the Project:

    (a)  subpart (2)(b)
         thereof

         (i) Goods               800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

         (ii) Consultants’       200,000        100%
              services

    (b)  other subparts
         thereof

         (i) Goods            53,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally



         (ii) Consultants’    12,300,000        100%
              services

    (c)  Unallocated           4,000,000

(4) Part D of the
    Project:

    (a)  Goods                50,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally

    (b) Consultants’          10,000,000        100%
         services
         and training

    (c)  Unallocated           3,100,000

         TOTAL               175,600,000
                             ===========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $17,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after April 30, 1993.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to: (1) assist the Borrower in
achieving the objectives of its Petroleum Sector Strategy to promote private
sector investments in the petroleum sector and to strengthen institutional
capabilities and establish a suitable regulatory framework to facilitate the
development of an efficient and commercially oriented petroleum sector; and
(2) assist each of PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET in improving its operational
efficiency and financial management.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:   MIND and NAMR

(1)       Carrying out of a program to strengthen the policy making
functions of MIND, including: (a) the development and implementation of (i)
a fuel policy, (ii) a strategy for the restructuring and optimizing the
refinery subsector operations, and (iii) a regulatory framework for the
petroleum sector and a strategy for upgrading the operations of the oil
services subsector; and (b) the establishment and operation of an
independent national agency for mineral resources to function as the
Borrower’s regulatory authority for the petroleum sector.

(2)       Carrying out, through NAMR, of (a) a study to develop a pricing
policy for oil and gas transmission and distribution, and (b) a petroleum



exploration promotion program to facilitate the participation by
international oil companies in oil and gas exploration and development and
production investments, including the preparation of model exploration and
production contracts for such participation.

Part B:   PETROM

(1)       Development and implementation of a corporate restructuring and
development program with the objective of  improving PETROM organization,
streamlining its operations and improving its financial condition and
management.

(2)       Carrying out of: (a) a program to upgrade existing production
facilities, introduce modern production technology and workover of wells to
improve their productivity; and (b) a program to implement enhanced oil
recovery techniques for the production of oil and gas on selected fields
through cooperative arrangements between PETROM and international oil
companies.

(3)       Carrying out of an environmental action plan for upgrading the
waste water treatment plant at Suplacu and the environmental laboratory at
Cimpina.

(4)       Provision of technical assistance, staff training, equipment and
spare parts, chemicals and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of
this part of the Project.

Part C:   ROMGAZ

(1)       Development and implementation of a corporate restructuring and
development program with the objective of improving ROMGAZ organization,
streamlining its operations and improving its financial condition and
management.

(2)       Carrying out of: (a) a program to upgrade existing production
facilities and introduce modern production technology; and (b) a program to
implement enhanced recovery techniques in selected gas reservoirs through
joint ventures between ROMGAZ and international oil companies.

(3)       Carrying out of a program for the rehabilitation of the gas
distribution system through the replacement of about 1,000 km of severely
corroded pipelines.

(4)       Installation of a supervisory control and data acquisition system
(SCADA) and telecommunications system to be utilized in monitoring,
analyzing and determining the optimized operational mode of gas flow in the
gas transmission system.

(5)       Carrying out of an environmental action plan to introduce
environmental abatement measures in gas production fields and in the
transmission and distribution systems.

(6)       Provision of technical assistance, staff training, equipment and
spare parts and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of this Part
of the Project.

Part D:   CONPET

(1)       Development and implementation of a corporate development program
with the objective of improving CONPET organization and streamlining its
operations as a common carrier of crude oil.

(2)       Carrying out of programs to rehabilitate, modernize and automate
the crude oil transmission systems, including the replacement of about 300
km of corroded pipelines and the installation of a SCADA system and of a
telecommunications system.

(3)       Carrying out of an environmental action plan to introduce
environment abatement measures in the management of sludge in the oil
transportation systems.

(4)       Provision of technical assistance, staff training, equipment and



spare parts and materials to be utilized in the carrying out of this Part
of the Project.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*

November 1, 1999                                 3,285,000
May 1, 2000                                      3,405,000
November 1, 2000                                 3,530,000
May 1, 2001                                      3,665,000
November 1, 2001                                 3,800,000
May 1, 2002                                      3,940,000
November 1, 2002                                 4,085,000
May 1, 2003                                      4,240,000
November 1, 2003                                 4,395,000
May 1, 2004                                      4,560,000
November 1, 2004                                 4,730,000
May 1, 2005                                      4,905,000
November 1, 2005                                 5,085,000
May 1, 2006                                      5,275,000
November 1, 2006                                 5,470,000
May 1, 2007                                      5,675,000
November 1, 2007                                 5,885,000
May 1, 2008                                      6,105,000
November 1, 2008                                 6,330,000
May 1, 2009                                      6,565,000
November 1, 2009                                 6,810,000
May 1, 2010                                      7,060,000
November 1, 2010                                 7,325,000
May 1, 2011                                      7,595,000
November 1, 2011                                 7,880,000
May 1, 2012                                      8,170,000
November 1, 2012                                 8,475,000
May 1, 2013                                      8,790,000
November 1, 2013                                 9,115,000
May 1, 2014                                      9,450,000

_____________________________

*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                             The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
                             per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
                             of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity



More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4

                           Consultants’ Services

1.  Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded to
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5

                          Implementation Program

1.  The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through MIND and NMAR
and shall employ consultants with qualifications and terms of reference, and
in accordance with a time-schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to
assist in the carrying out of said Part A.

2.  The Borrower shall establish and maintain, with staff and other
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, NAMR to be
responsible for regulating the activities of the entities involved in the
production and distribution of mineral resources.

3.  The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the consultants referred to
in paragraph 1 hereof and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:

    (a)   (i) by December 31, 1994, initiate, through NAMR, the preparation
for the carrying out of the petroleum exploration promotion program referred
to in Part A (2) of the Project; and (ii) by March 31, 1995, initiate the
carrying out of said program;

    (b)   by November 1, 1994, demarcate, through NAMR, the areas
relinquished by PETROM, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of
Schedule 2 to the PETROM Project Agreement, and by ROMGAZ, pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the ROMGAZ Project Agreement, and
offer such areas for exploration and production to private sector companies
on a competitive basis;

    (c)   (i) by November 1, 1994, initiate, through MIND, the carrying out
of a study for the development of the fuel policy referred to in Part A (1)



(a) (i) of the Project, (ii) by December 31, 1995, ensure that said study
is completed and a copy thereof furnished to the Bank for its review and
comments, and (iii) thereafter, take all measures required to implement a
fuel policy based on the recommendations of said study and the Bank’s
comments thereon;

    (d)   (i) by November 1, 1994, initiate, through NAMR, the carrying out
of a study for the development of the pricing policy for oil and gas
transmission and distribution referred to in Part A (2) (a) of the Project,
(ii) by July 31, 1995, ensure that the said study is completed and a copy
thereof furnished to the Bank for its review and comments, and (iii)
thereafter take all measures required to implement a pricing policy for oil
and gas transmission and distribution based on the recommendations of said
study and the Bank’s comments thereon;

    (e)   (i)   by November 1, 1994, initiate, through MIND, the carrying
out of a study for the development of a restructuring and optimizing
strategy for the refinery subsector referred to in Part A (1) (a) (ii) of
the Project, (ii) by December 31, 1995, ensure that the said study is
completed and a copy thereof furnished to the Bank for its review and
comments, and (iii) thereafter, take all measures required to implement a
strategy for the restructuring and optimizing the refinery subsector
operations based on the recommendations of the said study and the Bank’s
comments thereon; and

    (f)   (i)   by November 1, 1994, ensure, through MIND, that the draft
regulatory framework for the petroleum sector, referred to in Part A (1) (a)
(iii), and, through NAMR, that the draft model exploration and production
contract referred to in Part A (2), of the Project, are completed and copies
thereof furnished to the Bank for its review and comments, and (ii) by
December 31, 1994, finalize and adopt the same after taking into
consideration the Bank’s views thereon.
                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence



                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
                Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and
                in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,  the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 7

             Principal Terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements

1.  The principal amounts to be made available by the Borrower pursuant to
the PETROM, ROMGAZ and CONPET Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be,



respectively, the equivalent in dollars (determined as of the respective
date or dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or
paid out on account of the cost of goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to: (a) Category (2) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in respect
of the principal amount to be made available pursuant to the PETROM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (b) Category (3) of said table, in respect of the
principal amount to be made available pursuant to the ROMGAZ Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (c) Category (4) of the said table, in respect of the
principal amount to be made available pursuant to the CONPET Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.

2.  Each of the principal amounts referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule: (a) not withdrawn from time to time, shall be charged a commitment
charge at a rate per annum equal to the rate of commitment charge applicable
to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (b) withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, shall be charged interest at a rate per annum
equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a margin equivalent to one
tenth of such rate; and (c) shall be made for a period of 20 years,
inclusive of a grace period of five years.
                                SCHEDULE 8

                 Outline of the Petroleum Sector Strategy

    The basic elements of the Petroleum Sector Strategy comprise:

1.  institutional reforms of the oil and gas sector aimed at enhancing the
effectiveness of oil and gas exploration and production, especially by
facilitating the entry of foreign investors;

2.  development of a petroleum law and establishment of a national
regulatory agency for mineral resources (NAMR) independent of the oil and
gas entities operating in the sector; with said agency to be responsible for
granting concessions, regulating corporate activities in the sector and
enforcing pricing policies;

3.  restructuring of the main entities operating in the sector as a means
of ensuring efficient management, corporate planning and commercial
orientation;

4.  development of a national social safety net program to cater for surplus
staff that may occur as a result of the corporate restructuring of the
entities operating in the sector;

5.  rehabilitation and modernization of the oil and gas transmission and
distribution pipeline networks as a means of enhancing the capability and
efficiency of the systems;

6.  instituting, by the entities operating in the sector, of acceptable
accounting principles to ensure financial accountability through the setting
up of financial criteria to which said entities will be held accountable;

7.  development of a fuel policy for the rationalization of supply and
demand of energy resources including modification of producer and consumer
pricing policies of energy resources as a means of resource mobilization for
the development of the sector;

8.  development of a comprehensive program for addressing environmental
issues; and

9.  undertaking a program for the promotion of oil and gas exploration and
of enhanced oil recovery, and establish model production sharing agreements
and contracts with foreign oil companies, either alone or in joint ventures
with the entities operating in the sector.