World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 37580 JM

                              Loan Agreement

                    (Tax Administration Reform Project)

                                  between

                                  JAMAICA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated July 18, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 37580 JM
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1994, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

       (a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



       (b)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

              "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
       which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
       with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles
       of Agreement."

       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

       A.     "Assessment Department" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter
defined) Assessment Department;

       B.     "Banking and Financial Institutions Acts" means the
Borrower’s Banking Act and Financial Institutions Act, both of 1992, as
amended until the date of this Agreement;

       C.     "CARICOM" means the Caribbean Common Market created by the
General Treaty for the Caribbean Community signed at Chaguramas, Trinidad
and Tobago, on July 4, 1970, by Antigua, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St.
Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago;

       D.     "Customs Act" means the Borrower’s Customs Act of 1941, as
amended until the date of this Agreement;

       E.     "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning on
April 1 and ending on March 31 of each calendar year;

       F.     "FSL" means Fiscal Services (EDP) Limited, a company
established under the Borrower’s Companies Act, of 1965;

       G.     "GCTD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) General
Consumption Tax Department;

       H.     "General Consumption Tax Act" means the Borrower’s General
Consumption Tax Act of 1991, as amended until the date of this Agreement;

       I.     "Implementation Timetable" means the timetable set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;

       J.     "Income Tax Act" means the Borrower’s Income Tax Act of 1954,
as amended until the date of this Agreement;

       K.     "IRD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) Inland Revenue
Department;

       L.     "ITD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) Income Tax
Department;

       M.     "LVD" means the MOF’s (as hereinafter defined) Land Valuation
Department;

       N.     "Master Plan" means the Borrower’s plan referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;

       O.     "MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Planning;

       P.     "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement;

       Q.     "PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;

       R.     "Revenue Administration Act" means the Borrower’s Revenue
Administration Act of 1985, as amended until the date of this Agreement;

       S.     "RB" means the Borrower’s Revenue Board, established by the
Borrower’s Revenue Board Act, of 1981;



       T.     "RPD" means the MOF’s Revenue Protection Division;

       U.     "SDTTD" means the MOF’s Stamp Duty and Transfer Tax
Department;

       V.     "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

       W.     "Stamp Duty Act" means the Borrower’s Stamp Duty Act, of
1937;

       X.     "Steering Committee" means the committee established pursuant
to the letter from the MOF’s Financial Secretary, dated September 20, 1993,
appointing its members;

       Y.     "TACS" means tax accounting and collection system, a system
to process collection and accounting of taxes;

       Z.     "Tax Administration" means the IRD, the ITD, the LVD, the
SDTTD, the FSL, the RB, the RPD, the GCTD, the TPU (as hereinafter defined)
and the Assessment Department, or any of them;

       AA.    "Tax and Information Bills" means the legislative proposals
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;

       AB.    "Tax Legislation" means the Customs Act, the General
Consumption Tax Act, the Income Tax Act, the Transfer Tax Act (as
hereinafter defined), the Stamp Duty Act and any other legislation in
Jamaica entitling the Borrower to levy taxes or fees from taxpayers, as such
legislation may be amended pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.08 and
3.10 of this Agreement;

       AC.    "Transfer Tax Act" means the Borrower’s Transfer Tax Act of
1971, as amended until the date of this Agreement;

       AD.    "TRN" means the taxpayers registration number referred to in
Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and

       AE.    "TPU" means the Borrower’s Taxation Policy Unit, within MOF.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
thirteen million, two hundred thousand dollars ($13,200,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

       (b)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the



principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

       (b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.

       (c)    For the purposes of this Section:

              (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                     the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                     Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                     Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

              (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                     reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                     percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                     of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                     such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                     allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and
                     (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                     1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                     as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

             (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                     six months of a calendar year.

       (d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this
Section shall be amended to read as follows:

              "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
       amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
       a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
       determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
       percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06
       of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
       principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
       calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

              "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
       the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
       Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

              "(c)   (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
       on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

       Section 2.08. The Director of the External Financial Unit of the
Economics Division of MOF, or any person authorized in writing by such
Director, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project



       Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in
accordance with the Implementation Timetable and the Operational Manual, and
in conformity with appropriate managerial, administrative, maintenance and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

       Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain within MOF, until
completion of the Project, a unit in charge of Project coordination (the
PCU), with structure, functions, management, staff and budget, all
satisfactory to the Bank.

       (b)    The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee  with
structure, functions, members and secretarial support, all satisfactory to
the Bank, for purposes of providing guidance, monitoring and supervising the
Project implementation and the PCU, and of facilitating the coordination
among the different departments of the Borrower involved in the Project
implementation.

       Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07
of the General Conditions, by no later than June 30 and December 31 of each
year during the execution of the Project, the Borrower, through PCU, shall
furnish to the Bank a report on the progress achieved in the implementation
of the Project during the immediately preceding semester, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request. The report to be
furnished by no later than December 31 shall include a draft annual work
plan for the upcoming calendar year.

       Section 3.05 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through PCU and in conjunction
with the Bank, shall:

              (i)    in the month of January of each year during the
                     execution of the Project, excepting 1997, review the
                     progress achieved in the implementation of the
                     Project during the preceding calendar year, each such
                     review to be based on the progress reports referred
                     to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the
                     corresponding annual work plans and the
                     Implementation Timetable; and

            (ii)     in the month of July of 1997, review the overall
                     progress in the implementation of the Project, such
                     review to include an assessment of the performance of
                     the Borrower’s obligations under this Agreement, and
                     the available findings and recommendations of the
                     consultants hired under the Project.

       (b)    If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall
promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of
its objectives.

       Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, and thereafter
implement, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank (the Master Plan), for the
carrying out of Part B of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) the
reorganization of the Tax Administration; (ii) an overall management
information system plan to ensure an efficient and reliable exchange of
information among the Tax Administration units; (iii) a plan for the
institutional strengthening of the Tax Administration; and (iv) a plan to
increase salaries of staff of the Tax Administration.

       Section 3.07. The Borrower shall adopt a manual, satisfactory to the



Bank (the Operational Manual), specifying criteria, methods and procedures
for the carrying out of the Project.

       Section 3.08. The Borrower shall present to its Parliament, for
approval, bills, satisfactory to the Bank (the Tax and Information Bills),
to amend the Tax Legislation, the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts
and other laws of the Borrower related to tax enforcement, aimed at granting
the Tax Administration department powers of, inter alia: (a) search and
seizure; (b) survey of business premises; (c) impounding of original
incriminating documents; (d) requisitioning of information from third
parties, including banks and other financial institutions; and (e)
exchanging taxpayers information among each other.

       Section 3.09. The Borrower shall present to its Parliament, for
approval, a bill, satisfactory to the Bank, establishing a compulsory
taxpayer registration system, satisfactory to the Bank, such system to
provide, inter alia, that every person having any transaction with the Tax
Administration will be required to quote the respective tax registration
number (the TRN).

       Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:

       (a)    not later than one year after the Effective Date, carry out
a study under Part A of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, on the Borrower’s tax legal framework, including the
legislation related to tax enforcement;

       (b)    shortly after the conclusion of such study, furnish it to the
Bank, for its review and comment;

       (c)    not later than 60 (sixty) days after the Bank shall have
presented to the Borrower its comments on such study, prepare, based on the
recommendations of such study and on the comments of the Bank thereon, a
plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, aiming at: (i) streamlining the
Borrower’s assessment, collection, refund and tax clearance procedures; (ii)
restricting the Tax Administration discretion in the determination of tax
liabilities; (iii) improving the Borrower’s tax appellate system; and (iv)
the imposition of penalties for non-compliance with tax obligations; and

       (d)    carry out such plan of action in a manner and under a time-
table satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that, whenever such plan
of action may require amendments to laws, the presentation of bills,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for such amendments to the Borrower’s
Parliament for approval, shall be considered sufficient for purposes of
implementing such requirements of the plan of action.

       Section 3.11. The Borrower shall adopt regulations, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the leasing program under Part C.6 of the Project, including
a standard leasing agreement, such regulations to provide, inter alia, that:
(a) only staff and managers in the Tax Administration and involved in field
operations shall be eligible for the leasing of vehicles; (b) the leasing
term shall be  not less than 4 years; (c) the lessee shall have the option
to purchase the vehicle at the end of the leasing period; (d) the leasing
agreement shall terminate in the event lessee ceases, for any reason, to
work in the Tax Administration; (e) the lessee shall be responsible for the
maintenance of the vehicle; and (f) the lessee shall keep the vehicle fully
insured at all times.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project or any part thereof.

       (b)    The Borrower shall:

              (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                     paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                     Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in



                     accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                     consistently applied, by independent auditors
                     acceptable to the Bank;

               (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                     case not later than three months after the end of
                     each such Fiscal Year, the report of such audit by
                     said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                     the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

              (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                     said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                     the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

       (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

              (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                     with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                     separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;

              (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                     received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
                     which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                     payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                     records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                     and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

           (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                     records; and

            (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                     the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                     Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                     separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                     statements of expenditure submitted during such
                     Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and
                     internal controls involved in their preparation, can
                     be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the Tax
Legislation or the Banking and Financial Institutions Acts or the Revenue
Administration Act or the Revenue Board Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of
the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

       (a)    that the PCU shall have been established; and

       (b)    that the Operational Manual shall have been adopted.

       Section 6.02. The date October 18, 1994 is the terminal date for
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.



                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

       Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

       For the Borrower:

              Ministry of Finance
              30 National Heroes Circle
              Kingston 4
              Jamaica

                                                  Telex:

                                                    2447 FINANCEJA

       For the Bank:

        International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:                         Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                            197688 (TRT),
             Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA),
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                   82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                  JAMAICA

                  By /s/ Richard Bernal
                  Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                  Regional Vice President
                  Latin America and the Caribbean

                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                           (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed



(1)(a) Goods                       6,010,000        100% of foreign
      except for                                    expenditures
      Part C.6 of                                   100% of local
      the Project                                   expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory cost)

   (b) Vehicles                   1,000,000         and 85% of local
      for Part C.6                                  expenditures for
      of the Project                                other items pro-
                                                    cured locally

(2)(a) Consultants’               4,528,000         100%
      services other
      than training

   (b) Training                     519,000         100%

(3)      Unallocated              1,143,000
                                 __________

    TOTAL                        13,200,000
                                 ==========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:

    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$100,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1993;

    (b)   expenditures with respect to Part A of the Project, unless the
bill establishing compulsory taxpayer registration referred to in Section
3.09 of this Agreement shall have been submitted to the Borrower’s
Parliament for approval;

    (c)   expenditures with respect to Part B of the Project, unless the
Master Plan shall have been furnished to the Bank;

    (d)   expenditures with respect to Part C of the Project, unless the Tax
and Information Bills shall have been submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament
for approval;

    (e)   expenditures under Category 1(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, unless the Borrower shall have adopted the regulations
referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement; and

    (f)   expenditures with respect to Part D of the Project, unless the
Borrower shall have selected, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the TACS
to be installed.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods below the equivalent of $25,000; and for contracts with firms for
consultants’ services below the equivalent of $50,000, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2



                        Description of the Project

    The objective  of the Project is to increase the Borrower’s tax revenues
through: (a) broadening the tax base; (b) improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Tax Administration; (c) improving control of tax
evasion; (d) improving tax collection systems; and (e) facilitating
taxpayers’ voluntary compliance with the Tax Legislation.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives.

Part A:   Broadening the Tax Base

1.  Introduction of the TRN, including the development of a computerized
system for assigning a registration number to taxpayers and recording
information on the registered taxpayers.

2.  Carrying out of surveys throughout the Borrower’s territory, aimed at
the detection and registration of potential taxpayers.

3.  Revision of the Tax Legislation, including studies, aiming at broadening
of the tax base by reducing exemptions, deductions and concessions.
Part B:   Strengthening the Organization and Management of the
          Tax Administration

1.  Organizational restructuring of the Tax Administration.

2.  Improvement of human resources management and working conditions in the
Tax Administration.

3.  Improvement and strengthening of the Tax Administration management
systems, including, inter alia, remodeling of strategic planning, monitoring
and evaluation policies; reinforcement of internal audit and quality control
functions; introduction of computerized administrative systems for planning,
budgeting, accounting and personnel management.

4.  Construction of Tax Administration offices.

5.  Refurbishing and maintenance of Tax Administration offices.

Part C:   Control of Tax Evasion

1.  Strengthening the enforcement powers and access to information of the
Tax Administration, including, inter alia, installation of computerized
systems in the Assessment Department;

2.  implementation of an improved audit selection policy and assessment and
investigation methodologies;

3.  training of auditors and investigators;

4.  establishment of intelligence collection systems;

5.  provision of vehicles and other equipment to strengthen operations of
the Tax Administration; and

6.  implementation of a program consisting of the leasing of vehicles to
staff and managers in the Tax Administration involved in field operations,
in order to provide them with adequate transportation for the performance
of their duties.

Part D:   Improvement of Tax Collection

    Improvement of the Borrower’s mechanisms to control tax returns and
payment of taxes, through, inter alia:

1.  installation of the TACS;

2.  design and implementation of a plan for the detection, quantification
and clearing of existing arrears in the payment of taxes; and



3.  training of Tax Administration units’ staff in the use of computer
systems.

Part E:   Voluntary Taxpayers Compliance

1.  Revision of the Tax Legislation, aimed at simplifying procedural
requirements and reducing the cost of compliance with legal requirements,
improvement of the quality of services to taxpayers, including, inter alia:

    (a)   simplification of forms and procedures;

    (b)   dissemination of information related to tax regulations;

    (c)   streamlining of collection, assessment, refund and tax clearance
procedures; and

    (d)   establishment of taxpayers assistance and education units.

2.  Strengthening of the appellate system and establishment of grievance
units reporting to the head of the respective Tax Administration unit.

3.  Carrying out of taxpayer satisfaction surveys.

                                 *   *   *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in Dollars)

On each January 1 and July 1

beginning on January 1, 2000
through July 1, 2011                          550,000

                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                  Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                  by:

Not more than three years                     0.18
     before maturity

More than three years but                     0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                       0.65



     not more than 11 years
     before maturity

More than 11 years but not                    0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity

More than 15 years before                     1.00
     maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.

    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A the
Borrower shall use relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
standard bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.  To the extent practicable contracts for:

    (a)   goods other than vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and

    (b)   vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Regional
          Manufacturers

1.  For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically-manufactured goods; (b) customs duties and other import taxes
on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (c) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.

2.  For goods manufactured in Jamaica and in member countries of CARICOM,
the Borrower may grant a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:

    (a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following
methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison
of bids.

    (b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:

          (i)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jamaica, if
                the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of



                the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
                such goods includes a value added in Jamaica equal to at
                least 20% of the Ex-factory bid price of such goods.

         (ii)   Group B: all other bids offering goods from within Jamaica.

        (iii)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country,
                other than Jamaica, which is a party to CARICOM and
                entitled to preferential tariffs thereunder.

         (iv)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.

    (c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to
be imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied
domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The
lowest evaluated bid of each group shall then be compared with each other,
and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.

    (d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the
lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A or
group B after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C and group D bid, for the purposes of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a nonexempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or a group C bid is the lowest
in such further comparison, it shall be selected for the award.

    (e)   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (d)
above, a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally
compared with the lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (c)
above, after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered
in each group D bid, for the purposes of this final comparison only, an
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which would actually be payable for
the importation of goods offered in such group D bid and for the importation
of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest bid in such
comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from group D, as determined under paragraph (c)
above, shall be selected for purposes of award.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $120,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

2.  Database management computer software contracts for the TACS, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured by direct
contracting, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:

    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods awarded under Part A
hereof the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding



paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time based-assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultant’s services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the first three contracts for consultants’ services
to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan, to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and tobe financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account



such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)          For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                       Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such       intervals
                as the Bank shall specify.

         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.

6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions



of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

SCHEDULE 6

IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE

[Refer to hard copy for Implementation Timetable]