World Bank Document


CONFORMED COPY

LOAN NUMBER 3732 IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

                      (Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated June 8, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3732 IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

      WHEREAS: the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
            with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s
            Articles of Agreement."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the  several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "BAPPENAS" means the National Development Planning Agency, an
agency of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (b)   "DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways of MPW and
includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (c)   "DPUK" and "DPUKs" mean singularly the Office (Dinas) of Public
Works of a Kabupaten and collectively the Offices (Dinas) of Public Works
of Kabupatens, selected for participation in the Project in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement, and includes any successor or successors
thereto.

      (d)   "DPUP" and "DPUPs" mean singularly a Provincial Office (Dinas)
of Public Works of the Borrower and collectively the Provincial Offices
(Dinas) of Public Works of the Borrower and includes any successor or
successors thereto.

      (e)   "Indigenous Peoples"  means those social groups in Indonesia
that:

            (i)   have a distinct social and cultural identity; and

            (ii)  are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development
                  process induced by the Project or any part thereof.

      (f)   "Kabupaten" means a district, an administrative sub-division,
of the Borrower.

      (g)   "MHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower and
includes any successor or successors thereto.
      (h)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and includes
any successor or successors thereto.

      (i)   "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower and
includes any successor or successors thereto.

      (j)   "Project Kabupaten" and "Project Kabupatens" means singularly
a Kabupaten and collectively the Kabupatens selected for participation in
the Project by the Borrower with the concurrence of the Bank.

      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.

      (l)   "Sub-project" and "Sub-projects" means singularly a sub-project
and collectively the sub-projects included in Part A.1 of the Project.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred one million five hundred thousand dollars ($101,500,000), being



the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Quali-fied Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date speci-fied in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrow-ings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund:

                  (A)  the Bank’s investments; and

                  (B)  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                       1989 bearing interest rates deter-mined otherwise
                       than as provided in para-graph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
            of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
            rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
            of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in
            Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable



            during such Interest Period."

            "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commen-cing on
            January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate adminis-trative, financial, economic,
engineering and environmental prac-tices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-wise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      (b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
from a list satisfactory to the Bank.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agen-cies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                    (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                    Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                    with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                    applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Bank;

           (ii)     furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                    case not later than six months after the end of each
                    such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                    of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                    reasonably requested; and

          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other information con-cerning
                    said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                    Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.



      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accord-ance with
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                    reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                    received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                    the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
                    out of the Special Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)     enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                    records; and

           (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                    the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                    Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                    separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                    year, together with the procedures and internal
                    controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                    upon to support the related withdrawals.

                                 ARTICLE V

                                Termination

      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate-General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710, Indonesia

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  FINMINISTRY                  45799 DJMLN-IA
                  Jakarta                      44319 DEPKEU-IA

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
                   Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America



            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                    248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               197688 (TRT)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                               /s/   Arifin M. Siregar
                              By
                                                Authorized Representative

                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT

                                 /s/  Gautam S. Kaji
                               By
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1)   Civil works:

      (a) under Part             36,500,000       37%
          A.1 (a) of the
          Project

      (b) under Part             17,200,000       37%
          A.1 (b) of the
          Project

      (c) under Part A.2(a)         300,000       37%
          of the Project

(2)   Supervision of civil       13,200,000       100%
      works under Part A.4

(3)   Vehicles, equipment,       18,200,000       100% of foreign
      spare parts, supplies                       expenditures,
      and inland transpor-                        100% of local
      tation thereof                              expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost), 65%
                                                  of local expendi-
                                                  ditures for other



                                                  items procured
                                                  locally, and 65%
                                                  of local expendi-
                                                  tures for inciden-
                                                  tal costs to the
                                                  supply contract

(4)   Consultants’                6,900,000       100%
      services

(5)   Unallocated                 9,200,000
                                ___________

      TOTAL                     101,500,000

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;

      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and

      (c) the term "inland transportation" means transportation costs from
the factory, port of entry and supplier warehouse to Project site for
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and supplies procured under the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-drawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:

      (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-drawals, in
an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories 1, 2 and 4 on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1994;

      (b) under Category 1 (a), unless the Bank has received evi-dence that
the Borrower has complied with its obligations under paragraphs 8 and 9 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and

      (c) by a Project Kabupaten under Category 1 (a), unless its annual
road maintenance program, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, for the previous fiscal year has been implemented to the
satisfaction of the Bank.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:

      (i)   civil works not exceeding 1,500,000;

      (ii)  equipment, vehicles, spare parts, and supplies not exceeding
            $200,000 equivalent under terms and condi-tions as the Bank
            shall specify by notice to the Borrower; and

      (iii) contracts for the employment of consultants, estimated to cost
            less than $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and less
            than $50,000 equivalent for individuals.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:

      (a) improve the access of rural population in Project Kabu-patens to
its main economic centers; and

      (b) enhance the capability of its departments and agencies that
manage the development of Kabupaten roads.



      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:  Road Network Improvement and Maintenance

1.    Improvement and maintenance of Project Kabupatens road network through
sub-projects comprising:

      (a) rehabilitation or improvement of selected roads (about 1,620
kilometers) in the Project Kabupatens; and

      (b) routine and periodic maintenance of all the roads (about 6,000
kilometers) in the Project Kabupatens.

2.    (a) Construction of about four new workshops and about five new
laboratories in selected Project Kabupatens; and

      (b) provision of equipment for the said workshops and laboratories.

3.    Provision of road construction and maintenance equipment, spare parts,
and supplies to Project Kabupatens.

4.    Provision of supervision services for road improvement and maintenance
works under the Project.

Part B:  Technical Assistance and Training

      Provision of technical assistance to the departments and agencies of
the Borrower concerned with the Project through:

      (a) technical support and liaison for engineering aspects including
evaluation of implementation of technical guidelines and specifications, and
for Project quality assurance, including tech-nical audits;

      (b) general assistance in planning including further develop-ment of
the planning methodologies, carrying out of special studies of road works
needs in underdeveloped areas, analyzing the current situation and issues
regarding village roads, assessing the size of the road network that Project
Kabupatens can economically and finan-cially maintain and rehabilitate, and
assessing the long-term indi-rect impact of road rehabilitation and
improvement on the environ-ment;

      (c) assistance in the monitoring and coordination of project
activities, including the coordination of the separate teams of field
consultants for implementation (FCI) and training consultants, the
monitoring of project environmental impact, and the preparation of
consolidated project implementation reports;

      (d) support in the preparation of annual road works programs
including, inter alia, the environmental screening of proposed sub-projects,
the carrying out of site-specific environmental assessments when required,
the systematic review of sub-projects’ economic viability, and the extension
of planning methodologies to non-project Kabupatens;

      (e) support preparation of environmental assessments for future
projects; and

      (f) strengthen the central and provincial environmental assessment
capacity of the Borrower.

                     *              *               *



      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*

January 15, 2000                          1,925,000
July 15, 2000                             1,995,000
January 15, 2001                          2,065,000
July 15, 2001                             2,140,000
January 15, 2002                          2,220,000
July 15, 2002                             2,300,000
January 15, 2003                          2,380,000
July 15, 2003                             2,470,000
January 15, 2004                          2,560,000
July 15, 2004                             2,650,000
January 15, 2005                          2,750,000
July 15, 2005                             2,850,000
January 15, 2006                          2,950,000
July 15, 2006                             3,060,000
January 15, 2007                          3,170,000
July 15, 2007                             3,285,000
January 15, 2008                          3,405,000
July 15, 2008                             3,530,000
January 15, 2009                          3,655,000
July 15, 2009                             3,790,000
January 15, 2010                          3,925,000
July 15, 2010                             4,070,000
January 15, 2011                          4,220,000
July 15, 2011                             4,370,000
January 15, 2012                          4,530,000
July 15, 2012                             4,695,000
January 15, 2013                          4,865,000
July 15, 2013                             5,040,000
January 15, 2014                          5,225,000
July 15, 2014                             5,410,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                          Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity



More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity

More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity

More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                   Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:   International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C.2 hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

      (b)  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other inter-nationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures

1.    (a) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, civil works shall
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with proce-dures (including
prequalification procedures and contract packaging criteria) satisfactory
to the Bank.

      (b) Civil works for road routine maintenance, up to an aggre-gate
amount equivalent to $8,200,000, may be carried out by force account, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    (a) Except as provided in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) hereof, items or
groups of items of goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (c) hereof, items or groups
of items for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per



contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three sup-pliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

      (c) Contracts for spare parts, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $200,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a) With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $1,500,000 and $200,000 respectively,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such proce-dures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.

      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-ing
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furn-ished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
para-graph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-graph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, exper-ience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For, complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using stan-dard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent of each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consul-tants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5



                          Implementation Program

1.    The Borrower shall, under the general supervision and guidance of a
Coordinating Committee chaired by BAPPENAS, carry out the Project as
follows:

      (a) Part A.1 and A.2 (a) of the Project shall be carried out by DPUKs
with the assistance of concerned DPUPs.

      (b) Parts A.2 (b), A.3, and A.4 of the Project shall be carried out
by DGH.

      (c) Part B of the Project shall be carried out by DGH and MHA and the
concerned DPUKs.

2.    The Borrower shall maintain:

      (a) the Project Secretariat established under the Third Kabu-paten
Roads Development Project (Loan Number 3490 IND) in the same form and for
the similar purpose of assisting the Coordinating Committee referred to in
paragraph 1 hereof; and

      (b) the Project Implementation Unit in DGH and supported by MHA,
established under the said project, to assist, and monitor progress, in
project implementation including preparation of annual programs,
procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures.

3.    The Borrower shall cause each Project Kabupaten to:

      (a) prepare, in accordance with criteria and methodology agreed to by
the Bank, and, by December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1995, submit, for the
Bank’s review and comments, its annual road maintenance program for the
fiscal years 1995-96 and 1996-97 respectively; and

      (b) finalize and implement the said annual road maintenance program
as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

4.    The Borrower shall cause each Project Kabupaten to:

      (a) prepare, in accordance with criteria and methodology agreed to by
the Bank, and, by December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1995, submit, for the
Bank’s review and comments, its annual rehabilitation and improvement works
program in respect of the Project for the fiscal years 1995-96 and 1996-97
respectively; and

      (b) finalize and implement the said annual rehabilitation and
improvement works program taking into account the comments, if any, by the
Bank.

5.    The Borrower shall select, design and implement Sub-projects for the
Project Kabupatens in accordance with criteria and proce-dures satisfactory
to the Bank, including environmental assessments therefor and, inter alia,
baseline data of the social structure and income sources of the concerned
Indigenous Peoples, if any.

6.    The Borrower is committed to the protection of interests of Indigenous
Peoples and hereby agrees to ensure that the benefits they receive under the
Project are in harmony with their economic, social, and cultural
preferences. Notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower
shall:

      (a) through a process of informed participation, involve the
concerned Indigenous Peoples in the preparation and implementation of the
relevant Sub-projects as agreed with the Bank; and

      (b) mitigate or avoid adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples caused or
likely to be caused by the Project.

7.    The Borrower shall:

      (a) by December 31, 1994, establish a team comprising indepen-dent



and experienced social science professionals, as agreed with the Bank, to
monitor the effects of the Project on Indigenous Peoples and to ensure
compliance with or implementation of the Borrower’s obligations hereunder;
and

      (b) by December 31 of each year, commencing 1994, submit to the Bank
an annual report in respect thereof in a form satisfactory to the Bank.

8.    The Borrower shall provide vehicles for Kabupaten staff res-ponsible
for Project supervision in accordance with a list agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.

9.    Without limitation upon the generality of Section II of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ consultants, as agreed with and
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of
supervision services for road improvement and maintenance works under the
Project.

10.   The Borrower shall:

      (a) by September 15, 1994, prepare a detailed action plan for
establishing Kabupaten workshops plant-hire units; and

      (b) by January 15, 1995:

          (i)     provide funds, as agreed with the Bank, for the operation
                  and maintenance of the said workshops;  and

          (ii)    charge hire rates, in accordance with a formula agreed to
                  by the Bank.

11.   The Borrower shall:

      (a) from time to time, as reasonably required by the Bank, carry out:

          (i)     an action program to assure Project quality in accordance
                  with terms of reference agreed between the Borrower and
                  the Bank; and

          (ii)    technical audits of the completed road improve-ment and
                  maintenance works under the Project focussing on the
                  quality of said works; and

      (b) immediately thereafter, furnish the result of said program and
audits to the Bank.

                                SCHEDULE 6

                              Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-lent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall



be made as follows:

      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b) (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                  Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.

      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respec-tive equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-ments and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-ably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expendi-tures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:

      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.

      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account:

          (i)     was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
                  pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or

          (ii)    was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
                  the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:

                  (A)   provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
                        request; or

                  (B)   deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
                        shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount



                        equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
                        thereof not so eli-gible or justified.  Unless the
                        Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
                        the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
                        until the Borrower has provided such evid-ence or
                        made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.