World Bank Document


                                                     CONFORMED COPY

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3697 UR

                          Loan Agreement

                 (Natural Resources Management and
                  Irrigation Development Project)

                              between

                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

                                and

               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT

                        Dated March 4, 1994

                                               LOAN NUMBER 3697 UR

                          LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1994, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
            be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
            Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.".

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Action Plan" means the Borrower’s plan of action,
included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, for the carrying
out of Part A.5 of the Project, as referred to in Section 3.09 of
this Agreement;

      (b)   "Beneficiary" means an individual or a group of
individuals living in the area adjacent to the Santa Lucòa River
Basin engaged in agricultural production activities and to whom the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a Subgrant under a Subgrant
Agreement;

      (c)   "BROU" means the Borrower's Bank of the Oriental
Republic of Uruguay (Banco de la Rep�blica Oriental del Uruguay);

      (d)   "CHDCSL" means the National Commission for the
Development of the Santa Lucia Basin (Comision Honoraria para el
Desarrollo de la Cuenca de Santa Lucòa) of the Borrower;

      (e)   "Construction Agreement" means any of the agreements
entered into or to be entered into between the Borrower and a Small
Farmer, Medium Farmer or User Group pursuant to paragraph 3
(d)(ii)(A) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (f)   "Convenio" means any of the arrangements referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;

      (g)   "Decree No. 308/93" means Decreto No. 308/93 of the
Borrower dated June 29, 1993;

      (h)   "DGRNR" means the General Directorate for Renewable
Natural Resources (Direcci›n General de Recursos Naturales
Renovables) of MGAP;

      (i)   "Executing Entity" means any of the entities referred to
in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

      (j)   "Farmer" means any individual engaged in the production
of agricultural products who has met the criteria set forth in the
Project Manual;

      (k)   "Farm Subproject" means a specific project for the
development of a soil-conservation and management demonstration farm
which has met the criteria set forth in the Project Manual;

      (l)   "FD" means the Forestry Directorate (Direcci›n Forestal)
of MGAP;

      (m)   "ICC" means the Interministerial Coordinating Commission
(Comisi›n Coordinadora Interministerial) established pursuant to
Decree No. 308/93;

      (n)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank indicating the matters to be
examined during the reviews referred to in Section 3.14 of this



Agreement, and including as annexes thereto, the performance
indicators referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement and the
Action Plan;

      (o)   "INIA" means the Institute of Agricultural Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria) of the Borrower,
established as a public entity with juridical personality pursuant
to Law No. 16.065;

      (p)   "INIA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;

      (q)   "Irrigation Subproject" means any of the irrigation
projects to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project;

      (r)   "Law No. 15.239" means Ley No. 15.239 of the Borrower
dated December 23, 1981, duly published in the official gazette
(Diario Oficial) on January 7, 1982, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;

      (s)   "Law No. 16.065" means Ley No. 16.065 of the Borrower
dated October 6, 1989, duly published in the official gazette
(Diario Oficial) on October 31, 1989;

      (t)   "Medium Farmer" means an individual engaged in the
production of agricultural products whose annual net farm income is
$6,000 or more;

      (u)   "MEF" means the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas) of the Borrower;

      (v)   "MGAP" means the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and
Fishery (Ministerio de Ganaderia Agricultura y Pesca) of the
Borrower;

      (w)   "Ministerial Resolution No. 450/93" means Resoluci›n
Ministerial No. 450/93 of MGAP dated July 7, 1993;

      (x)   "MTOP" means the Ministry of Transport and Public Works
(Ministerio de Transportes y Obras P�blicas) of the Borrower;

      (y)   "NHD" means the National Directorate of Hydrography
(Direcci›n Nacional de Hidrografia) of MTOP;

      (z)   "Non-Traditional Agricultural Export Promotion Program"
means the program described in Part C.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement dated November 20, 1989 between the Borrower and the Bank;

      (aa)  "On-farm Assessment" means the socio-economic, technical
and environmental assessment carried out by the Borrower on each On-
farm Investment;

      (ab)  "On-farm Investment" means a specific project to be
financed under a Subgrant consisting of investments in small
irrigation infrastructure (including irrigation and tillage
equipment) to be made in each of the microcatchment areas of CaŸada
los Alamos, La Feliciana, Canel›n Grande and Tala, located within
the Santa Lucòa River Basin, for purposes of reducing soil
degradation and erosion;

      (ac)  "OPP" means the Office of Planning and Budgeting
(Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto) of the Borrower;

      (ad)  "Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;

      (ae)  "POA" means the operating annual plan (Programa
Operativo Anual) referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement;

      (af)  "Project Account" means the account or accounts referred
to in Section 3.16 (a) of this Agreement;

      (ag)  "Project Executing Unit" means the unit referred to in



Section 3.10 (a) of this Agreement, as established pursuant to
Ministerial Resolution No. 450/93;

      (ah)  "Project Manual" means the Borrower’s manual which: (i)
describes the procedures to select each Farm Subproject and
Irrigation Subproject, under Parts A.2 and B.1 of the Project, as
well as the criteria to be met by such subprojects; and (ii) sets
forth the terms and conditions of a Subgrant Agreement, Services
Agreement, Rehabilitation Agreement and Construction Agreement;

      (ai)  "Rehabilitation Agreement" means any of the agreements
entered into or to be entered into between the Borrower and a User
Group pursuant to paragraph 3 (d)(ii)(A) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;

      (aj)  "Research Agreements" means the agreements referred to
in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;

      (ak)  "Services Agreement" means any of the agreements entered
into or to be entered into between the Borrower and a Farmer
pursuant to paragraph 3 (c)(ii)(A) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (al)  "Small Farmer" means a farmer who lives in a farm which
he or she exploits or a farmer who lives within a radio of about
fifty kilometers of a farm which he or she exploits, and whose
annual net farm income is less than $6,000;

      (am)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;

      (an)  "Subgrant" means a grant made or to be made by the
Borrower to a Beneficiary;

      (ao)  "Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements entered
into or to be entered into between the Borrower and a Beneficiary
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b)(i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (ap)  "User Group" means a group of agricultural producers
duly associated in accordance with Uruguayan law; and

      (aq)  "Water Code" means the Water Code (Codigo de Aguas) of
the Borrower created pursuant to Law No. 14.859 (Ley No. 14.859) of
the Borrower dated December 15, 1978, duly published in the official
gazette (Diario Oficial) on January 11, 1979, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                             The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty one million Dollars ($41,000,000), being the sum
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank (Banco Central del Uruguay) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or



such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:

                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."

                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."

                   "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year.".

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of



the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall:

            (i)    through the Executing Entities, in coordination
                   with the ICC and with the assistance of the
                   Project Executing Unit, carry out the respective
                   Parts of the Project as referred to in the Annex
                   to Schedule 2 to this Agreement in accordance
                   with the Project Manual, and with due diligence
                   and efficiency and in conformity with
                   appropriate administrative, financial,
                   engineering, technical, agricultural,
                   conservation, ecological, environmental and
                   institutional practices, and shall provide,
                   promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                   services and other resources required for such
                   Parts of the Project; and

            (ii)   pursuant to the INIA Agreement, cause INIA to
                   carry out Parts A.3 (excluding the portion to be
                   carried out by the Borrower) and A.4 of the
                   Project, in coordination with the ICC and with
                   the assistance of the Project Executing Unit, in
                   accordance with the Project Manual, and with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                   appropriate administrative, financial, tech-
                   nical, agricultural, ecological, conservation
                   and environmental practices, and shall take or
                   cause to be taken all action, including the
                   provision of funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                   enable INIA to carry out such Parts A.3 and A.4
                   of the Project, and shall not take or permit to
                   be taken any action which would prevent or
                   interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of
                   the Project by INIA.

      (b)   The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with INIA
(the INIA Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for: (i) the transfer, on a grant basis, to INIA of the
portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A.3
(excluding the portion to be carried out by the Borrower) and A.4 of
the Project; (ii) the obligation of INIA to carry out such Parts of
the Project and to comply with all the other applicable provisions
of this Agreement including, inter alia, those set forth in Sections
3.02, 3.03, 3.08, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14, 3.15, 4.01 and 5.01 of this
Agreement; and (iii) the obligation of the Borrower to assist,
through the Project Executing Unit, INIA in the carrying out of such
Parts of the Project.

      (c)   The Borrower, through MGAP, shall enter into agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank (the Research Agreements), with institu-
tions acceptable to the Bank, specialized in agricultural research
and with the capability of transferring agricultural technology, for
purposes of governing: (i) the assistance to be provided by such
institutions to MGAP in the carrying out of the portion of Part A.3
of the Project not carried out by INIA; and (ii) the annual pro-
vision of funds by the Borrower to such institutions for the
carrying out of such assistance.

      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the INIA Agreement and the Research Agreements
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the



Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce either the INIA
Agreement or the Research Agreements or any provision thereof,
respectively.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.3
(excluding the portion to be carried out by the Borrower) and A.4 of
the Project shall be carried out by INIA.

      Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through the
Project Executing Unit, shall enter into an arrangement with each of
the agencies within each Executing Entity, as described in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, (the Convenio), under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of assisting such
agencies in the carrying out of Parts A.1 and A.2, A.5 through A.8
and B.1 and B.2 of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause the other parties to
each Convenio to comply with the provisions set forth therein.

      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and
comply with its obligations under each Subgrant Agreement in such
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the objectives of the Project.

      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Subgrant Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and
comply with its obligations under each Services Agreement in such
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the objectives of the Project.

      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Services Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall present to the Bank: (i)
for approval, each Irrigation Subproject; (ii) the corresponding
draft Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction Agreement to be
entered into with the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User Group, as
the case may be, if the estimated cost included in the Irrigation
Subproject exceeds an amount equivalent to $250,000; and (iii)
information of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, if the estimated cost included in the Irrigation
Subproject is below the amount referred to in (ii) herein.

      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under each Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction
Agreement in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the objectives of the Project.

      (c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to
enforce any Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction Agreement, or
any provision thereof.

      Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section



3.01 (a)(i) and (ii) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause INIA to carry out the Project in accordance with
performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out Part A.5
of the Project in accordance with the Action Plan, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.10. (a) For the purposes of assisting the: (i)
Borrower and INIA in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) ICC,
in coordinating the implementation of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain until the completion of the Project, the Project
Executing Unit, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist the
Borrower and INIA in the carrying out of the procurement of the
works, goods and consultants’ services required under the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Executing
Unit is at all times headed by a qualified professional and assisted
by staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank.

      Section 3.11. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
INIA to establish not later than June 30, 1994, the unit referred to
in Part A.4 of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.

      (b)   After the unit mentioned above has been established, the
Borrower shall cause INIA to: (i) operate and maintain, at all
times, such unit, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank; and (ii) appoint a qualified professional to head such
unit and staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 3.12. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower with the
participation of INIA, shall not later than September 30 of each
year, starting in 1994, furnish to the Bank, for its review, an
operating annual plan (the POA) for the following calendar year,
which shall include inter alia: (i) the Project’s budget (including
the Project Executing Unit’s budget) for the year in question; and
(ii) a description of all the activities related to the execution of
the Project for the year in question.

      (b)   As part of the review referred to in paragraph (a)
above, the Bank may recommend to the Borrower to make adjustments in
the POA in question. The Borrower shall, not later than 60 days
after the conclusion of the review in question, furnish to the Bank
the revised POA, which shall include the Bank’s recommendations and
shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out such revised
POA in accordance with its terms.

      Section 3.13. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the Project
Executing Unit, shall not later than May 31 and December 31 of each
year, starting in May 1994 until the completion of the Project,
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved
by: (a) the Borrower, through the Executing Entities; and (b) INIA,
in carrying out their respective Parts of the Project.

      Section 3.14. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause INIA to review jointly with the Bank by not later than
June 30 of each year, starting in 1994, the progress made by the
Borrower and INIA in: (i) carrying out their respective Parts of the
Project in accordance with the performance indicators referred to in
Section 3.08 of this Agreement and the POA for the year in question;
and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project. Such review shall,
inter alia, focus on discussing the topics referred to in the



Implementation Letter with regard to annual reviews and on analyzing
the progress reports referred to in Section 3.13 of this Agreement.
As part of each such review the Bank may require that the Borrower
prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make
adjustments in Project implementation. The Borrower shall furnish
such action plan to the Bank not later than 30 days after the
conclusion of the review in question and shall thereafter carry out,
or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its
terms.

      (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause INIA to participate
in a Project implementation mid-term review to be held with the Bank
as part of the annual review to be held not later than June 30,
1996. During such mid-term review, attention shall particularly be
focused on the topics referred to in the Implementation Letter with
regard to the mid-term review and on analyzing the progress reports
referred to in Section 3.13 of this Agreement.

      Section 3.15. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the
Project Executing Unit, shall prepare quarterly reports (starting in
the first quarter of 1994) of such scope and such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request on the expenditures incurred in the carrying
out of the Project during the quarter preceding the date of
presentation of such report.

      (b)   The quarterly reports referred to in paragraph (a)
above, shall be furnished to the Bank within thirty days of the
conclusion of each quarter.

      Section 3.16. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, and
thereafter operate and maintain in a commercial bank, a project
account or accounts (the Project Account) under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of depositing in such account
or accounts the Borrower’s counterpart funds for the implementation
of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall maintain in the Project Account, at
all times during Project implementation, a positive balance equal to
at least $400,000 equivalent.

                            ARTICLE IV

                        Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the Project Executing
Unit, shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with the procedures referred to in Section 7.01 (b) of this
Agreement records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1 through A.3 and A.5 through
A.8 of the Project (excluding the operations, resources and
expenditures of the activities to be carried out by INIA under Part
A.3 of the Project) of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project or any part
thereof; and (ii) cause INIA, to maintain in accordance with the
procedures referred to in Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement,
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operation,
resources and expenditures in respect of the activities to be
carried out by INIA under Part A.3 and Part A.4 of the Project.

      (b)   The Borrower shall and shall cause INIA to:

            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Project Account, Special Account and
                   INIA’s financial statements (balance sheets,
                   statements of income and expenses and related
                   statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles



                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;

           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) a certified copy of the
                   report of such audits by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and (B) a certified copy
                   of INIA’s financial statements for such year as
                   so audited; and

          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audits thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause INIA to:

            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;

           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)    enable the Bank’s representatives to examine
                   such records; and

           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audits contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                          Other Covenants

      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause INIA:

      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practices;

      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical,
agricultural, ecological, conservation and environmental practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and

      (c)   at all times to operate and maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
technical, agricultural, ecological, conservation and environmental
practices.



                            ARTICLE VI

                       Remedies of the Bank

      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that INIA will be able to perform its obligations under
the INIA Agreement;

      (b)   INIA shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the INIA Agreement;

      (c)   the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
INIA or for the suspension of its operations;

      (d)   Law No. 16.065 or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in
such manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability
of INIA to: (i) carry out Parts A.3 (excluding the portion to be
carried out by the Borrower) and A.4 of the Project; and (ii) to
perform its obligations under the INIA Agreement;

      (e)   Decree No. 308/93 or any provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced
in such manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project;

      (f)   Ministerial Resolution No. 450/93 or any provision
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the
Project;

      (g)   the Water Code or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in
such a manner so as to affect in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to carry out Part B.1 of the Project;

      (h)   Law No. 15.239 or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in
such a manner so as to affect in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project;

      (i)   the Project Manual or any provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the
Project or any of such Parts of the Project; and

      (j)   the decrees referred to in Section 7.01 (d) of, and
paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to, this Agreement or any provision
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed,
waived or not enforced.

      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) or (e) or
(f) or (g) or (h) or (i) or (j) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and

      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VII



                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the: (i) INIA Agreement; (ii) Research Agreements;
and (iii) Convenio, have been duly executed and delivered by the
respective parties thereto;

      (b)   that MGAP, MTOP and the Project Executing Unit, have
adopted accounting procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01
(a)(i) of this Agreement;

      (c)   that INIA has adopted accounting procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the maintenance of the records and
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement;

      (d)   that the Borrower has duly issued a decree which
authorizes it to use special procedures to transfer to the User
Groups the use, administration and maintenance of the irrigation and
drainage schemes referred to under Part B.1 (a) of the Project;

      (e)   that the Project Manual has been approved by the
Borrower in terms satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (f)   that the Project Account has been opened under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:

      (a)   that the INIA Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and is legally binding upon the respective parties to
such agreement in accordance with its terms; and

      (b)   that the decree referred to in Section 7.01 (d) of this
Agreement has been duly issued and is in full force and effect.

      Section 7.03. The date June 2, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE VIII

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 8.01. The Minister of MGAP is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.

      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

            Ministerio de Ganaderia, Agricultura y Pesca
            Constitucion No. 1476
            Montevideo, Uruguay

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   MAP                       26503 MAP UY
                   Montevideo, Uruguay

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.



            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.

                         REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

                         By /s/ Carlos Steneri
                                         Authorized Representative

                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Works under                7,900,000        60%
    Parts A.1
    through A.3
    and B.1 of
    the Project

(2) Goods:

    (a)  Irrigation,          13,100,000        80%
         tillage and
         laboratory
         equipment
         under the
         Project

    (b)  Vehicles                175,000        100%

    (c)  Office Tech-            525,000        100%
         nology Equip-



         ment

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(3) Consultants’
    services:

    (a)  Technical             8,500,000        100%
         assistance
         other than
         under Part A.3
         of the Project

    (b)  Studies and           3,600,000        100%
         related activi-
         ties under Parts
         A.6, A.7 and B.2
         of the Project

    (c)  Technical             1,000,000        50%
         assistance
         under Part A.3
         of the Project

(4) Training                   1,800,000        100%

(5) Administrative               400,000        100%
    Costs of the
    Project Executing
    Unit

(6) Unallocated                4,000,000
                              __________

         TOTAL                41,000,000
                              ==========

2.    For purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "Office Technology
Equipment" means processing (including software) reproduction and
communications equipment; and

      (b)   the term "Administrative Costs" means any office and
travel expenditure (excluding office rent) incurred by the staff of
the Project Executing Unit during the carrying out of the Project.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1993;

      (b)   payments made for expenditures under an On-farm
Investment under Part A.1 of the Project unless the Borrower has:
(i) entered into a subgrant agreement with the corresponding
Beneficiary under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including those set forth in Section I of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; and (ii) furnished to the Bank a copy of the
corresponding Subgrant Agreement immediately after such Subgrant
Agreement has been entered into;

      (c)   payments made for expenditures under a Farm Subproject
under Part A.2 of the Project unless: (i) the Farm Subproject has
been selected in accordance with the procedures and eligibility
criteria set forth in the Project Manual; and (ii) the Borrower has:(A) entered into a 
services agreement with the corresponding Farmer
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those
set forth in Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (B)



furnished to the Bank a copy of the corresponding Services Agreement
immediately after such Services Agreement has been entered into;

      (d)   payments made for expenditures under an Irrigation
Subproject under Part B.1 of the Project unless: (i) the Irrigation
Subproject has been selected in accordance with the procedures and
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Manual; and (ii) the
Borrower has: (A) entered into a rehabilitation agreement (for
purposes of transferring the use, administration and maintenance of
the irrigation and drainage schemes to be rehabilitated under
Part B.1 (a) of the Project) or construction agreement (for purposes
of constructing irrigation and drainage schemes under Parts B.1 (b)
through (d) of the Project), as the case may be, with the
corresponding Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User Group under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth
in Section III of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (B) furnished to
the Bank a copy of the corresponding Rehabilitation Agreement or
Construction Agreement, for an Irrigation Subproject whose cost
exceeds an amount equivalent to $50,000, immediately after such
Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction Agreement has been entered
into;

      (e)   payments made for expenditures under Part B.1 (b)
through (d) of the Project, unless the Borrower has issued: (i) a
decree which declares that the corresponding Irrigation Subproject
is considered to be within the Borrower’s policy on water supply for
the agriculture sector; and (ii) a decree which declares that the
water supply to be used by the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User
Group, as the case may be, under the corresponding Irrigation
Subproject, is reserved for such subproject;

      (f)   payments made for expenditures under Part B.1 (c) of the
Project for each Irrigation Subproject to be carried out in the area
located above the aquifers of Raig›n and Salto, unless the Bank
shall have received satisfactory evidence that the recommendations
resulting from the assessment referred to in Part A.7 (a) of the
Project are being implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;

      (g)   payments made for expenditures under Part B.1 (d) of the
Project, unless the Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence
that the assessment referred to in Part A.7 (e) of the Project has
been carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and

      (h)   payments made for expenditures under Part B.3 of the
Project, unless the Bank shall have received evidence that the
Borrower has prepared an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, as
a result of the assessment of the Non-Traditional Agricultural
Export Promotion Program.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures
under contracts for goods and works to cost less than $200,000 and
$500,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower, respectively.

                            SCHEDULE 2

                    Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to develop and implement a
soil and water management strategy which shall focus, inter alia, on
irrigation development in order to increase, diversify and sustain
agricultural output and exports, by: (a) increasing the level of
sector investment through the rehabilitation and development of
irrigation-drainage schemes and related service infrastructure; (b)
strengthening the technical foundation and regulatory framework of
the use of water; (c) establishing a policy on the operation and
maintenance and capital cost recovery of the sector investment
referred to in (a) above; (d) supporting agricultural
diversification; and (e) establishing the framework to improve the
management of natural resources.



      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Natural Resources Management

1.    Carrying out of On-farm Investments.

2.    Carrying out of Farm Subprojects to develop about five soil-
conservation and management demonstration farms (of about less than
1,000 hectares each) located in Chapicuy, Young, CaŸada Nieto,
Omb�es de Lavalle and Tarariras for purposes of providing to such
demonstration farms, improved soil, crop and livestock management
technology.

3.    Carrying out of an applied research and transfer of technology
program with respect to the management and conservation of natural
resources, irrigated agriculture, and practices on the appropriate
use of land and soil and water conservation for the benefit of
agricultural producers in Uruguay.

4.    Provision of technical assistance to INIA in order to: (i)
establish a soil conservation and management unit for purposes of
creating a new program on soil conservation and management; and (ii)
carry out the program referred to in (i) herein, including the
training of its staff required therefor.

5.    Development of a computerized data base of the geographical
distribution of renewable natural resources and their
characteristics for purposes of providing the basis for agro-
ecological zoning and recommending an appropriate use of the land in
the Borrower's territory.

6.    Provision of technical assistance and training to MGAP in
strengthening its institutional capacity (including the acquisition
and utilization of equipment and vehicles required therefor) for
purposes of: (a) carrying out the Project; (b) carrying out economic
sectors analyses; (c) preparing internal budgets; (d) improving its
financial management; (e) designing sector policy; (f) monitoring
projects and programs within the agricultural sector in Uruguay; and
(g) carrying out a forestry development program consisting, inter
alia, of: (i) strengthening the FD in order to improve its capacity
to monitor the activities under its jurisdiction; (ii) improving an
applied forestry research program for the benefit of agricultural
producers, including the carrying out of studies on forestry
matters; and (iii) provision of technical assistance and training to
agricultural producers in order to assist such producers in forestry
activities.

7.    Carrying out of the following activities: (a) an assessment of
the resource availability and exploitation potential of the aquifers
of Raig›n and Salto; (b) an evaluation of the quality of water for
irrigation; (c) a study of the water management plans with respect
to the micro-catchment areas where agricultural producers intend to
construct small earthfills; (d) an evaluation of the efficiency on
the use of water under different irrigation practices; (e) an
environmental and economic assessment of the works to be carried out
under Part B.1 (d) of the Project; and (f) a study concerning the
preparation of a future agricultural project.

8.    Provision of technical assistance to MTOP (NDH) in
strengthening its institutional capacity for purposes of carrying
out the Parts of the Project described in the Annex to this
Schedule.

Part B:     Irrigation Development

1.    Carrying out of Irrigation Subprojects, consisting of: (a)
rehabilitation of the Borrower's irrigation and drainage schemes
located in the Uruguay, Santa Lucòa and Rio Negro River Basins for
purposes of transferring their use, administration and maintenance
to User Groups living in the areas adjacent to such basins



(including the provision of technical assistance to such User
Groups);

      (b)   construction of medium-size irrigation and drainage
schemes (including the acquisition and utilization of irrigation
equipment, up to the farm gate, necessary for the operation of such
schemes) for the benefit of User Groups, including the provision of
technical assistance to such groups to improve soil and water
management practices;

      (c)   construction of small scale earthfills, tubewells and
irrigation and drainage canals (including the acquisition and
utilization of small pumping stations at the farm level) for the
benefit of Small Farmers, including the provision of technical
assistance to such farmers to improve soil and water management
practices at the farm level; and

      (d)   construction of on-farm earthfills at the farm level (on
a pilot basis) within the Uruguay River Basin and the Yaguarò stream
for the benefit of Medium Farmers, including the provision of
technical assistance to such farmers to improve soil and water
management practices at the farm level.

2.    Carrying out of: (a) studies on the feasibility of each work
to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project; (b) a study on the
legal framework concerning the use of irrigation water in Uruguay;
and (c) an analysis of the water management policies in Uruguay.

3.    Provision of technical assistance and training to agricultural
producers to strengthen their capabilities in identifying,
producing, processing and marketing non-traditional agricultural
export activities.

                               * * *

      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.

                         ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2

Parts of the Project                   Executing Entities
                                      (Agencies of Executing
                                     Entities in parenthesis)

      A.1                           MGAP (DGRNR) and OPP (CHDCSL)

      A.2                           MGAP (DGRNR)

      A.3 (portion to               MGAP
          be carried out
          by the Borrower)

      A.5                           MGAP (DGRNR)

      A.6                           MGAP (DGRNR and FD)

      A.7                           MGAP and MTOP (NDH)

      A.8                           MTOP (NDH)

      B.1                           MGAP (DGRNR) and MTOP (NDH)

      B.2                           MGAP and MTOP (NDH)

      B.3                           MGAP

                           SCHEDULE 3

                       Amortization Schedule

                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*



On each January 15
and July 15

      beginning July 15, 1999
      through January 15, 2009            2,050,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                      Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:

      Time of Prepayment                   Premium

                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:

Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity

More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity

More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity

More than 11 years but not                 0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity

More than 13 years before                  1.00
      maturity

                           SCHEDULE 4



               Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder’s bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall and shall cause INIA to use the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, and more than $3,000,000, respectively.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Section, goods manufactured in Uruguay
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but
less than $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $9,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

2.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 but not
more than $3,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $10,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

4.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $7,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions



1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works
to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part A of this Section;
(ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more; (iii) each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (iv) the first contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000; and
(v) the first contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Part E:

      All procurement of goods and works to which local competitive
bidding applies shall be carried out using bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank.

Section II. Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower and INIA in carrying out their
respective parts of the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
INIA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall, and shall cause INIA to employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall,
and shall cause INIA to use other standard forms agreed with the
Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,600,000.
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of
a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.

Section III. Special Provisions



A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of
goods and works referred to in Parts A, C.1 and C.2 of Section I of
this Schedule, except that the principle and rule of procurement
referred to in paragraph 3 below shall not apply to the procurement
of goods and works referred to in Part A of Section I of this
Schedule, respectively.

1.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids,
be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local
bidders.

2.    The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.

3.    Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in competitive
bidding advertised locally.

4.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with
local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding, except that, under
the procurement procedures set forth in Parts C.1 and C.2 of Section
I of this Schedule, foreign bidders may be required as a
prerequisite for bidding, to be registered with local authorities,
provided, however, that the information to be requested by the
Borrower to such bidders is of such nature that it will not
discourage their participation.

5.    Contracts prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if
such prices have increased by less than 15% of the bid price.

6.    There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be
submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.

7.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their
bidding documents with Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for
bidding.

8.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel,
except for unskilled personnel.

B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following
principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants’ services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:

1.    Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
participating in the selection process, be required to enter into a
joint venture agreement with local consultants.

2.    Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in
a short list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of
reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.

3.    The prices of contracts over one year duration may be
adjusted.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and



      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.

2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.

            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to



the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.

                            SCHEDULE 6

              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
               for Subgrants, Farm Subprojects, and
                      Irrigation Subprojects

Section I.   Subgrants (On-farm Investments)

1.    The aggregate amount of the portion of the Subgrants to be
financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall not exceed an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000.

2.    Each Subgrant shall be made and disbursed in Pesos or in
Dollars, as the case may be.

3.    No expenditures for goods, works or consultants’ services
required for a On-farm Investment shall be eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan unless such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior to the
date on which the Bank shall have received the request and
information required under paragraph 4 of this Section in respect of
such On-farm Investment (except for the withdrawals under paragraph
3 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement).

4.    The first request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of each On-farm
Investment shall contain a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the On-farm Investment including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.

5.    Each Subgrant shall be made pursuant to a Subgrant Agreement
under terms and condition satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:

      (a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the On-



farm Investment with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial, agricultural, conservation,
environmental, ecological and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; (ii) such goods, works and consultants’ services shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the On-farm Investment; and
(iii) the Beneficiary comply with the recommendations resulting from
the corresponding On-farm Assessment;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and constructions included in the On-farm Investment,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
agricultural practices; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Beneficiary to replace and repair such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the On-farm
Investment; and

      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under the Subgrant Agreement.

Section II.  Farm Subprojects

      In each Services Agreement, the Borrower shall obtain rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right to:

      (a)   require the Farmer to carry out and operate the Farm
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, agricultural, conservation,
environmental, ecological and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and consultants’ services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Farm
Subproject;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and constructions included in the Farm Subproject, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Farmer shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound agricultural
practices; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportaiton and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or installaiton, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Farmer to replace and repair such goods;



      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Farmer and
to the benefits to be derived from the Farm Subproject; and

      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Farmer to the use
of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Farmer to perform
its obligations under the Services Agreement.

Section III. Irrigation Subprojects

1.    In each Rehabilitation Agreement and Construction Agreement,
the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:

      (a)   require the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User Group,
as the case may be, to carry out and operate the Irrigation
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, agricultural, conservation,
environmental, ecological and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;

      (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and consultants’ services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Irrigation
Subproject;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and constructions included in the Irrigation
Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;

      (d)   require that: (i) the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or
User Group, as the case may be, shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound agricultural practices;
and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportaiton and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installaiton, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Small Farmer, Medium
Farmer or the User Group, as the case may be, to replace and repair
such goods;

      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Small
Farmer, Medium Farmer or User Group, as the case may be, and to the
benefits to be derived from the Irrigation Subproject;

      (f)   require the User Group (to whom the use, administration
and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage scheme has been
transferred under a Rehabilitation Agreement) to pay for any
expenditures incurred by such User Group in using, administrating
and maintaining the Irrigation Subproject;

      (g)   require that the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User
Group, as the case may be, provide to the Borrower the guarantee or
guarantees necessary to protect the Borrower in case of a default of
the obligation referred to in paragraph 3 and 4 of this Section; and

      (h)   suspend or terminate the right of the Small Farmer,
Medium Farmer or User Group, as the case may be, to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Small Farmer, Medium
Farmer or User Group to perform its obligations under the
Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction Agreement, as the case may
be.

3.    Each Rehabilitation Agreement and Construction Agreement shall



also provide for the obligation of the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer
or User Group, as the case may be:

      (a)   to repay to the Borrower the Irrigation Subproject’s
capital costs (the Capital Costs), as indicated in paragraph 4
hereof, within a period not exceeding 25 years from the completion
of the Irrigation Subproject, including a grace period not
exceeding: (i) four years, in the case of Small Farmers, Medium
Farmers and User Groups involved in production of fruit trees; and
(ii) two years for Small Farmers, Medium Farmers and User Groups
involved in production activities other than in the production
activity referred to in (i) herein, such Capital Costs to be
adjusted in the same proportion as the wholesale price index in
Uruguay is adjusted as such price index is published by the MEF;

      (b)   pay interest on the amount of the Capital Costs
outstanding from time to time at a rate at least equal to the rate
calculated by the Central Bank on medium-term certificates of
deposit in Pesos in Uruguay.

4.    Each Rehabilitation Agreement and Construction Agreement shall
provide for the amount of the Capital Costs to be repaid, which
amount, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not be less
than 30% of the total Capital Costs’ amount, in the case of Small
Farmers or User Groups, as the case may be, and not less than 70%
thereof, in the case of Medium Farmers.

5.    If the level of overall recovery of the Capital Costs agreed
between the Borrower and the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User
Group, as the case may be, with respect to each Irrigation
Subproject differs in more than 15% in relation to the level
included in the draft Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction
Agreement or the information presented to the Bank, as referred to
in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not enter
into such agreements with the Small Farmer, Medium Farmer or User
Group, as the case may be, without the prior Bank’s approval
thereto.

6.    The amounts corresponding to the principal of, and interest
on, the Capital Costs shall be collected by the Borrower, through
BROU, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

7.    Each Rehabilitation Agreement shall provide for the obligation
of the Borrower to grant a concession to such User Group to use,
administer and maintain such scheme (including the transfer of the
accessory rights necessary for the User Group to use, administer and
maintain such scheme) for a period of at least equal to the period
stipulated in the corresponding Rehabilitation Agreement to repay
the Capital Costs of the Irrigation Subproject in question, as
referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Section.

8.    Each Rehabilitation Agreement and Construction Agreement shall
provide for the obligation of the Borrower to grant to the Small
Farmer, Medium Farmer or User Group, as the case may be, a
concession for the use of water (including the right to use the
volume of water necessary to sustain agricultural production in the
area benefitted or to be benefitted by the corresponding Irrigation
Subproject) for a period of at least equal to the period stipulated
in the corresponding Rehabilitation Agreement or Construction
Agreement, as the case may be, to repay the Capital Costs of the
Irrigation Subproject in question, as referred to in paragraphs 3
and 4 of this Section.