World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3796 LV

                              Loan Agreement

          (Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project)

                                  between

                            REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated November 9, 1994

                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3796 LV
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated November 9, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

    WHEREAS (B) by agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (the Currency Pool Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to provide
a Loan in various currencies in the aggregate principal amount of twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000);

    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated February 9, 1993 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



    (a)   "Loan Tranche" means each of the amounts in specific currencies
provided for in Section 2.01 of this Agreement;

    (b)   "Deutsche Mark" and "DM" mean the lawful currency of Germany, but
if such currency shall be replaced with the European Currency Unit, then
‘Deutsche Mark’ and ‘DM’ shall be replaced by ‘European Currency Unit‘ and
‘ECU’ for purposes of the Loan, at the ratio in effect as of the date of
such replacement;

    (c)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and "Dollar Special Account" and "Deutsche Mark
Special Account" mean the Special Accounts to be maintained in dollars and
DM, respectively;
    (d)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established and maintained
within the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and responsible for
overseeing and coordinating overall project implementation;

    (e)   "TU" means the Technical Unit, an independent state entity
established by the Borrower for the purposes of selection and monitoring of
the Participating Financial Institutions and authorization of the use of the
credit line by the Participating Financial Institutions for the financing
of specific subprojects;

    (f)   "Participating Financial Institutions" or "PFIs" means the banks
and other financial institutions established and operating according to the
applicable rules of the Borrower and approved by the Bank for participation
in the Project; "PFI" means a single participating financial institution;

    (g)   "SPA" means the Separate Project Account to be opened in the Bank
of Latvia at the name of the Borrower for the purposes of disbursements and
other banking services required to operate the credit line pursuant to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the PFI or the Bond Redemption Agreement
with Unibank;

    (h)   "Swedish Capital Fund" means the fund established by the
Government of Sweden for the purpose of investment in banks and other
financial institutions operating in the territory of the Borrower, including
the PFI;

    (i)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or to be made by a Participating
Financial Institution financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of
the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;

    (j)   "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried
out by a Beneficiary utilizing, in whole or in part, the proceeds of a Sub-
loan;

    (k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means any of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements entered into by the Borrower and a Participating Financial
Institution for the purposes of execution of the Project;

    (l)   "Floor Interest Rate" means the lowest rate at which Subsidiary
Loans can be made by the Borrower to the PFI, and reflecting the costs of
the Borrower established under terms and procedures acceptable to the Bank
according to the procedures established in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (m)   "Private Enterprise" means commercial entity registered according
to the applicable rules and regulations of the Borrower, in which the
management is not directly or indirectly controlled by the Borrower, and
more than 50% of the interest is held by persons or companies other than the
Borrower, the local authorities or any subdivision thereto, or entities
controlled by the Borrower;

    (n)   "Beneficiary" means the Private Enterprise to which a Sub-loan is
made by the Participating Financial Institutions; and

    (o)   "First year" with respect to all PFI means the period from the
date the Loan has been declared effective until the end of the following
calendar year; the term "second year" means the next calendar year after the
first year; the term "third year" means the period after the second year up
to the closing date of the Loan.



                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to:

    (a)   the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000); and

    (b)   the amount of eight million five hundred thousand Deutsche Mark
(DM 8,500,000);

    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars and in Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

    Section 2.04 (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
of each Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the Average Margin as provided in
paragraph (b) (iv) below.

    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                including the date of this Agreement to but not including
                the first Interest Payment Date and thereafter the period
                from and including any Interest Payment Date to but not
                including the next Interest Payment Date.

         (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" any date specified in Section 2.05
                of this Agreement.

        (iii)   "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London interbank offered
                rate for the Single Currency of each Loan Tranche,
                expressed as a percentage per annum, reasonably determined
                by the Bank in accordance with Schedule 8 to this Agreement
                for the January 15 or July 15 on which an Interest Period
                commences (or, for the initial Interest Period, the January
                15 or July 15 preceding the date of this Agreement or on
                which such Interest Period commences).

         (iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period, the
                weighted average margin, for the Semester preceding the
                relevant January 15 or July 15, between: (A) the cost of
                the outstanding borrowings of the Bank or portions thereof
                allocated to the funding of single currency loans in all
                currencies, and (B) the specific London interbank offered
                rates or other such reference rates attributable to such
                borrowings in each such currency, all as reasonably
                determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                annum. For any Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B),
                the Average Margin shall be added under paragraph (a)
                above. For any Interest Period in which (B) exceeds (A),
                the Average Margin shall be subtracted under paragraph (a)
                above.

          (v)   "Semester" means the first six months or second six months



                of a calendar year.

    (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency LIBOR and the
Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such determination.

    Section 2.05. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

    Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, banking, accounting
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

    (b)   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
make available the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements acceptable to the Bank to be entered into between the
Borrower and each Participating Financial Institution, respectively, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall include,
without limitations those set forth in Schedule 5 of this Agreement.

    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

    Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the PMU and the TU in
accordance with a staffing plan and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.

                                ARTICLE IV

                       Financial and Other Covenants

    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

    (b)   The Borrower shall:

          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and

        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.



    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;

         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
                (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                documents) evidencing such expenditures;

        (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
                and

         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.

    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall present for consideration by the Saeima
(the Parliament of Latvia) legislation which in the opinion of the Borrower
and the Bank provides the necessary regulatory framework for the adequate
functioning of the banks and other financial institutions, including
legislation on secured transactions, loans and collateral regulations by
December 1995.

    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare by March 31, 1995 a plan of
action regarding the administrative procedures for:

          (i)   implementation of the bankruptcy and foreclosure
                legislation; and

         (ii)   public access to the registers of commercial entities,
                titles and rights, including the data and information that
                will be made available to the public.

                                 ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

    (a)   the SPA is opened with the Bank of Latvia on terms and conditions
specified in the Financial Agency Agreement acceptable to the Bank;

    (b)   The TU is established by the Borrower with staff and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank;

    (c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank between
at least two PFI have been executed on behalf of the parties thereto;

    (d)   Environmental screening procedures for the purposes of
implementation of the Project, including the adoption of Environmental
Assessment Manual, are established by the Borrower in a manner acceptable
to the Bank; and

    (e)   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Currency Pool
Loan Agreement for the Enterprise and Financial Sector Reconstruction
Project other then those related to the effectiveness of this agreement have
been fulfilled.



    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VI

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          1 Smilsu Street
          Riga, LV 1919
          Latvia

                                         Telex:

                                           871 161 299

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                       REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

                       By /s/ Ojars Kalnins
                                                Authorized Representative

                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                       By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia

                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out



of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amount of each Loan
Tranche to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:

                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated                  % of
                         Expressed in               Expenditures
                        Dollar       DM                 to be
Category              Equivalent Equivalent           Financed

Credit Line for                               )    100% of foreign private
sector                                        )    expenditures,
enterprises:                                  )    100% of local
                                              )    expenditures
(1) for Part         3,000,000    3,500,000   )    (ex-factory
    1 of the                                  )    cost) and 80%
    Project                                   )    of local
                                              )    expenditures
(2) for Part         2,000,000                )    for other items
    2 of the                                  )    procured
    Project                                   )    locally

(3) for Part         5,000,000    5,000,000
    3 of the
    Project
                    __________    _________

    TOTAL           10,000,000    8,500,000
                    ==========    =========

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:

    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;

    (b)   expenditures for Category 1 after March 31, 1996, after which date
the remaining balance in this category, if any, will be used for any sub-
loans financed under the Project; and

    (c)   expenditures for Category 2 after July 1, 1995, after which date
the remaining balance in this category, if any, will be used for any sub-
loans financed under the Project.

4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods, works and services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Government in the
efforts to reform the enterprise and financial sector by providing a credit
line for newly privatized and private enter- prises, technical assistance
in the privatization process and infrastructure investment in the banking
sector.

    The Project consists of a credit line for private sector enterprises,
which will provide financing of medium and long-term credits and establish



a credit mechanism for use in the future, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to
achieve such objectives:

1.  Newly Privatized Enterprises: Provision of medium and long-term
financing for newly privatized enterprises from part of the proceeds of the
Loan reserved for this category in the first eighteen months after
effectiveness.

2.  Swedish Capital Fund: Provision of credit for eligible banks which will
also be given the option to draw upon additional financial resources from
the Swedish Capital Fund made available by agreement between the Borrower
and the Government of Sweden, acceptable to the Bank;

3.  Credit Line for Private Enterprises: Provision of medium and long-term
credits for private enterprises through the Participating Financial
Institutions.

                                 *   *   *

    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                   Payment of Principal
                                       Expressed in

                                      Dollar         Deutsche Mark
Date Payment Due                      Loan Tranche*  Loan Tranche

On each January 15 and July 15

    beginning January 15, 2000
    through January 15, 2011           415,000       355,000

On July 15, 2011                       455,000       335,000

_____________________________

*     The figures in this column represent the amount in each currency to
      be repaid, except as provided in section 4.04 (d) of the General
      Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 4

                    Procurement and Consultants’ Services

Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works



Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).

      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder’s bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.

      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.

2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or
more.

Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Latvia may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 items or groups of items of
goods or services estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of less than
$500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank;

2.    Works estimated to cost to cost less than $500,000 but more than
$100,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures acceptable to the
Bank.

3.    Contracts for the procurement of goods, works and services estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 shall be awarded in accordance
with established commercial practice of the Beneficiary, due account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability thereof and availability of maintenance and spare parts.

4.    Goods of a proprietary nature may be purchased from suppliers on the
basis of negotiated contracts pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Bank.

Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

      (a)   With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods and works to
be financed by each Participating Financial Institution according to each
of the procedures under Part C of this Schedule; and (ii) each contract for
goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Parts
A.1 and C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall



be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.

      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.

2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.

2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000  equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) to amendments of contracts for employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

                                SCHEDULE 5

I.    Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement

      The principal terms and conditions set forth herein shall apply for
the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.

A.    Terms

1.    The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to
a Participating Financial Institution under its respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be: (a) denominated in dollars or Deutsche Marks; and (b)
the equivalent of the aggregate outstanding amount of the principal of all
Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof.

2.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) charged, on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each
six-month period commencing on February 15 and August 15 of each calendar
year, at a rate agreed between the Borrower and the Participating Financial



Institution and repre- senting margin above the interest rate established
in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and adjustable at the end of each
Semester, and which margin will be fixed until the maturity of the loan; and
(b) repaid over a period not exceeding 12 years, inclusive of a grace period
not exceeding three years.

3.    The floor interest rate shall represent a margin over the interest
rate under this Agreement, which will include the following components: (i)
costs of establishment and operation of the TU; (ii) premium to the Borrower
covering the exchange rate risk; (iii) the fee charged by the Bank of Latvia
in its capacity as financial agent for the Borrower for the purposes of the
Project; and (iv) premiums to the credit risk fund established by the
Borrower for the purposes of insurance against potential loses from the
operation of the credit line for the purposes of the Project).

B.    Conditions

1.    A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a bank or other
financial institution, duly established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower, which:

      (a)   is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements
applicable to its operations;

      (b)   is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and
procedures which the Bank and the Bank of Latvia shall have judged
acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and procedures; and

      (c)   has a satisfactory financial and management structure,
determined inter alia, on the basis of risk-based capital adequacy criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, including acceptable asset quality and lending
performance, liquidity and management effectiveness, and the organization,
management, technical staff and other resources required for the efficient
carrying out of its operations.

2.    Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which each respective Participating Financial Institution shall
undertake to:

      (a)   carry out its activities under the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and
in conformity with the investment and lending policies and procedures
referred to in paragraph I.B.1.(b) hereof, and to provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose;

      (b)   (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions
set forth in this Schedule; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each
such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of the
Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior approval
of the Borrower and the Bank; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise,
monitor and report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;

      (c)   (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the
Bank and the TU, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank and/or the TU,
with regard to the progress of its activities under the Project, the
performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Project; and
(ii) promptly inform TU of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of its activities under its respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

      (d)   (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by



independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the TU as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, certified copies of said financial statements and accounts
for such year, certified copies of said financial statements and accounts
for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors
in such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records,
accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.

3.    Subsidiary loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to
protect its interests and those of the Bank, including the rights to be
exercised in a manner acceptable to the Bank:

      (a)   to suspend the right of the Participating Financial Institution
to use the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by such
Participating Financial Institution to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower;

      (b)   in case of suspension to exempt from such suspension the amounts
already committed but not disbursed by the Participating Financial
Institution under eligible sub-loans executed before the date of the
suspension; and

      (c)   to transfer the rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement which
was suspended or terminated to another eligible Participating Financial
Institution under terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and such
Participating Financial Institution.

4.    Subsidiary Loans shall be made for onlending to the final
Beneficiaries for financing of eligible expenditures according to the terms
and conditions specified in the Credit Line Regulations Manual of the TU for
the Project, including:

      (a)    the following percentages which shall apply for financing of
eligible expenditures under every sub-project:

            (i)   100% of foreign expenditures;

           (ii)   100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost);

          (iii)   80% of local expenditures other than those in sub-
                  paragraph (a) (ii); and

           (iv)   100% of consultants contracts.

      (b)   notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, the
following percentages shall apply for financing of eligible sub-projects:
100% of the project cost for eligible sub-projects for which financing has
been authorized in the first year of the Project, 85% of the cost of
eligible sub-projects for which financing has been authorized in the second
year of the Project, and 70% of the cost of eligible sub-projects for which
financing has been authorized in the third year of the project.

II.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans

      The principal terms and conditions set forth herein shall apply for
the purpose of paragraph I.B.2.(b) of this Schedule.

A.    Terms

1.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be denominated in dollars, Deutsche Marks or Lats determined as
of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or
payment out of the Special Account of the value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods financed
out of such proceeds for the Sub-project.

2.    Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined
by the Participating Financial Institution making such Sub-loan in



accordance with its investment and lending policies and practices; and (b)
made for a period determined pursuant to said policies and practices and not
exceeding 12 years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than three
years.

B.    Conditions

1.    No expenditures required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the operation being
financed complies with the Credit Line Regulations Manual as established by
the TU from time to time in a manner satisfactory to the Bank:

      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been authorized for
disbursement by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the application and information required under paragraph II.B.2.(a)
below in respect of such Sub-loan; or

      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit
Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the TU shall have
received the Sub-loan request from the PFI and information required under
paragraph II.B.2.(b) below in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the
purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-
project, other than the first two Sub-loans to be made by each Participating
Financial Institution and other than any Sub-loan greater than $600,000
equivalent.

2.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan,
to the Bank for approval, the Participating Financial Institution shall
furnish the Technical Unit, which will forward to the Bank an application,
in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(iii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor; and (iv) any such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.

      (b)   Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary
description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including tentative
disbursement schedule and a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions
of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.

      (c)   Disbursement applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall
establish.

3.    Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Participating Financial Institution,
on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that it is creditworthy,
and has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, management,
staff and financial and other resources required for the efficient carrying
out of its operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project.

4.    Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined,
on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, to be technically feasible and economically,
financially and commercially viable and designed with appropriate health,
safety and environmental standards.

5.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Financial
Institution making the Sub-loan shall obtain, by written contract or other
appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the
Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:

      (a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental,
economic, financial and technical practices, to maintain adequate records,



and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other
resources required for the purpose;

      (b)   require that the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and use such goods exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-
project;

      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank
if the Bank shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;

      (d)   require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice, including such insurance to cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by theBeneficiary 
to replace or repair such goods;

      (e)   require each Beneficiary of the Project, as described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to (i) have its financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing regulations
applicable in the territory of the Borrower, in a manner acceptable to the
Participating Financial Institution, (ii) furnish to the Participating
Financial Institution, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope in such detail as the Participating
Financial Institution shall have reasonably requested;

      (f)   obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived
from the Sub-project; and

      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Participating Financial Institution.
                                SCHEDULE 6

                             Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and

      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited in a Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent to: for the Dollar Special
Account 1,000,000; and for the Deutsche Mark Special Account 850,000.

2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as
follows:

      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the



Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in such Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of such Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into such
                  Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.

           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into such
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:

      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan Tranche allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan Tranche allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in such
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.

6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.

      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and



(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.

                                SCHEDULE 7

                  Modifications of the General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

      The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower or the Guarantor
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:

            "or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph (c) of Section
      II.B.2. of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
      respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
      or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said
      paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the
      Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to submit
      such applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan
      Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
      of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
      of the Loan shall be cancelled."

                                SCHEDULE 8

                    Single Currency LIBOR Determination

1.    Single Currency LIBOR for any Single Currency for any Interest Period
shall be the offered rate for deposits in the Single Currency for a period
of six months which appears on the display designated as page "3750" on the
Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it for the
purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks for
Single Currency deposits), as of 11.00 a.m. (London time) on the second day
on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open for business in London
prior to the relevant January 15 or July 15 (the Interest Determination
Date).

2.    If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such
service as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London offices of four
major banks to provide the Bank with the rate at which deposits in the
Single Currency are offered by such banks on the Interest Determination Date
to leading banks in the London interbank market for a period of six months
ending on the last day of such Interest Period. Single Currency LIBOR for
such Interest Period shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if
necessary to the fifth decimal place) of such offered quotations as
determined by the Bank.

3.    If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such quotations
under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be arithmetic mean
(rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal place) determined by the
Bank of the rates quoted by at least two major banks in New York City for
U.S. Dollars and Frankfurt for Deutsche Marks, as the case may be selected
by the Bank on the Interest Determination Date for loans in the Single
Currency to leading European banks for a period of six months ending on the
last day of such Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected
are quoting such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the Single Currency
LIBOR in effect for the last preceding Interest Period.