World Bank Document


                                                            CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3761 IND

                              Loan Agreement

                  (Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project)

                                  between

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                            Dated July 25, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3761 IND

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

    (B) the Borrower intends to contract from Austria (Austria) a loan in
an amount equivalent to about $27,600,000 to assist in financing a portion
of Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Austrian Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and Austria;

    (C) the Borrower intends to contract from Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan) (OECF) a loan in an amount equivalent to about $51,200,000 to
assist in financing a portion of Part B of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Agreement) to be entered into

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



between the Borrower and OECF;

    (D) the Borrower intends to contract from Australian International
Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) a loan in an amount equivalent to
about $25,300,000 to assist in financing a portion of Part B of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AIDAB Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and AIDAB;

    (E) Parts D.1(a), D.2, D.3, and D.4 of the Project will be carried out
by the Borrower and Parts A, B, C, D.1(b), D.5, D.6, and D.7 of the Project
will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN) with the
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to PLN a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and

    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and PLN;

    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:

          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
                which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
                inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
                Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of Agreement."

    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

    (a)   "DGEED" means the Directorate General of Electricity and Energy
Development of the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy or any successor
or successors thereto.

    (b)   "Governing Laws" means the Borrower’s Law No. 19 of 1960, Law No.
9 of 1969, Law No. 15 of 1985, Government Regulation No. 3 of 1983,
Government Regulation No. 28 of 1983, Government Regulation No. 10 of 1989,
Government Regulation No. 17 of 1990, and includes any other laws and
regulations governing the organization, reorganization, restructuring and
operations of PLN, as any of them may be amended or supplemented from time
to time.

    (c)   "PLN" means Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, a corporate entity
established and existing under the laws and regulations of the Borrower.

    (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and PLN
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.

    (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.

    (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,



as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary Loan"
means the loan provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
two hundred sixty million five hundred thousand dollars ($260,500,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars, a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.

    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

    (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

    (c) For the purposes of this Section:

          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.

         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.

        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.

    (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’



notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."

                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."

                "(c) (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

                                ARTICLE III

                         Execution of the Project

    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end:

          (i)   shall carry out Parts D.1(a), D.2, D.3, and D.4 of the
                Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                with appropriate administrative and financial practices and
                shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                services and other resources required for said Parts of the
                Project; and

         (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
                cause PLN to perform all its obligations set forth in the
                Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all
                action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
                services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                enable PLN to perform such obligations, and shall not take
                or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
                interfere with such performance.

    (b) The Borrower shall relend to PLN out of the proceeds of the Loan an
amount equivalent to $257,300,000 under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following principal terms and
conditions: (i) PLN shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a variable
rate per annum equal to the sum of the following: the interest rate
calculated in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus one half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; (ii) PLN shall pay to the Borrower a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not
withdrawn from time to time at the rate specified in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement; (iii) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid
over 20 years including five years’ grace; and (iv) the foreign exchange
risk shall be borne by PLN.

    (c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or



waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

    Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts
D.1(a), D.2, D.3, and D.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.

    (b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) hereof, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
(i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (ii) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (1) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (2) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (3) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (4) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (5)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.

    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts A, B, C, D.1(b), D.5, D.6, and D.7 of the
Project shall be carried out by PLN pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by March 31, 1995,
complete a study on private power development in accordance with terms of
reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (b) upon completion of
the said study, furnish the same for review and comments to, and discuss the
results and recommendations thereof with, the Bank; and (c) based on the
said study’s results and recommendations and subsequent review, comments and
discussions: (i) prepare draft rules and procedures to govern private sector
participation including the solicitation and evaluation of all forms of
proposals for private power supply, (ii) furnish the said draft rules and
procedures for review and comments to the Bank, and (iii) by December 31,
1995, finalize, adopt and enforce the same taking into account the comments,
if any, thereon by the Bank.

    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by March 31, 1995,
complete a study on regulatory reform in the power sector in accordance with
terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (b) upon
completion of the said study, furnish the same for review and comments to,
and discuss the results and recommendations thereof with, the Bank; and (c)
based on the said study’s results and recommendations and subsequent review,
comments and discussions: (i) prepare draft regulations for the power
sector, (ii) furnish the said draft regulations for review and comments to
the Bank, and (iii) by June 30, 1996, finalize, adopt and enforce the same
taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank.

    Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1995, establish a
Directorate of Regulation within DGEED with adequate staff and funds and
necessary functions and powers to administer and oversee compliance with
regulations (including pricing and technical regulations) regarding the
electricity sector.

    Section 3.07. The Borrower shall jointly with PLN: (a) take the
necessary measures required to reorganize PLN into a limited liability
company (Persero): (b) by December 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank a progress



report concerning the reorganization of PLN together with a draft time bound
corporate reorganization and restructuring action plan for PLN to operate
according to best utility practices; (c) discuss the said progress report
and draft action plan with the Bank; and (d) immediately thereafter,
finalize the said action plan taking into account the comments, if any,
thereon by the Bank.

                                ARTICLE IV

                            Financial Covenants

    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts
D.1(a), D.2, D.3, and D.4 of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

    (b) The Borrower shall:

          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;

         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and

        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.

    Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:

    (a)  by December 31 each year commencing in 1994: (i) review with the
Bank: (1) its power sector development program, (2) the least cost planning
analysis used to formulate the said program, (3) the roles of PLN and the
private sector in the said program, and (4) the transparency and
appropriateness of the business environment for private power participation;
(ii) review with the Bank and PLN, PLN’s development and investment programs
with respect to: (1) their consistency with the Borrower’s power sector
development program, (2) the balance among generation, transmission and
distribution investments, and (3) the balanced development of regions; and

    (b) ensure that PLN has access to sufficient funds to finance its
development and investment programs.

    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such actions as shall be
necessary to ensure that transfer of profits from PLN to the Overall
Development Fund (Dana Pembangunan Semesta) does not prevent PLN from
implementing its power sector investment program.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

    (a) PLN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

    (b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it



improbable that PLN will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.

    (c) Any of the Governing Laws shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of PLN to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

    (d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PLN or for the
suspension of its operations.

    (e)   PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or by others whereby
any of the property of PLN shall or may be distributed among its creditors.

    (f) The Austrian Agreement, the OECF Agreement, and the AIDAB Agreement
shall each have failed to become effective by April 30, 1995, September 30,
1995, and November 30, 1995 respectively, or such later dates as the Bank
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.

    (g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                       of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                       financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                       cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                       pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
                       therefor, or

                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                       prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

          (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
                (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.

    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:

    (a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;

    (b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), or (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and

    (c) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of the said Section.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

    (a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and PLN; and

    (b) that the Borrower and PLN have taken all necessary measures,



satisfactory to the Bank, required to achieve the rate of return of not less
than eight percent (8%) of the average net current value of PLN’s net fixed
assets in operation as specified in Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement.

    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:

    (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance with its terms; and

    (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and PLN in accordance with its terms.

    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

    Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

    For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia

          Cable address:                 Telex:

                FINMINISTRY                44319 DJMLN IA
                Jakarta                    45799 DEPKEU IA

    For the Bank:

          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

                Cable address:           Telex:

                INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA),
                Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                       By  /s/  Arifin M. Siregar
                       Authorized Representative



                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                       By  /s/  Marianne Haug
                       Acting Regional Vice President
                       East Asia and Pacific

                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Civil works under

      (a) Part A of the       64,200,000       85%
          Project

      (b) Part B of the        7,000,000       28%
          Project

(2)   Goods under

      (a) Part A of the       14,600,000)      100% of foreign
          Project                       )      expenditures, 100% of
                                        )      local expenditures
                                        )      (ex-factory) and 65%
                                        )      of other items
                                        )      procured locally
                                        )
      (b) Part B of the       79,600,000)
          Project                       )
                                        )
      (c) Part C of the       25,200,000)
          Project                       )

(3)   Consultants’ services
      and training under

      (a) Part A of the       16,400,000       80%
          Project
          (engineering and
          construction
          supervision)

      (b) Part B of             9,000,000      80%
          the Project
          (engineering and
          construction
          supervision)

      (c) Part D.4 of           3,200,000      100%
          the Project

      (d) Part D.5, D.6         5,300,000      80%
          and D.7 of the
          Project

(4)   Unallocated              36,000,000



                              ___________

      TOTAL                   260,500,000

2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and

    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.

3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.

                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
implementation of its long-term power sector policy agenda aimed at: (a) the
increase of private sector participation in the power sector; (b) the
reorganization and restructuring of PLN to improve its operational
performance and service efficiency; (c) the formulation and implementation
of regulations to promote efficiency in power sector operations; (d) the
introduction of a formula-based periodic tariff adjustment mechanism to
recover costs; (e) the strengthening of PLN’s organizational capability and
efficiency of operations in Sumatera and Kalimantan; and (f) the expansion
of PLN’s electricity generation and transmission capacity in Sumatera and
Kalimantan.

    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Construction of Dam and Power Plant at Besai

1.  Construction of a ninety (90) megawatt run-of-the-river type
hydroelectric power plant at Besai including: (a) a nine (9) meter high
intake dam with sluiceway, and scouringway and both abutments complete with
gates and stoplogs; (b) a headrace tunnel, surge tank and an underground
penstock; (c) a powerhouse about five (5) kilometers downstream to
accommodate 2 x 45 megawatt generating units; and (d) an open channel
tailrace.

2.  Provision of about sixteen (16) kilometer long double-circuit, one
hundred fifty (150) kilovolt transmission lines to interconnect with the
nearest transmission system grid in the southern part of Sumatera.

Part B: Construction of Banjarmasin Thermal Power Plant at Asam-Asam

1.  Construction of a one hundred thirty (130) (2 x 65) megawatt coal-fired,
mine-mouth power station at Asam-Asam near Banjarmasin.

2.  Provision of double circuit one hundred fifty (150) kilovolt
transmission lines in South Kalimantan: (a) about seventy five (75)
kilometer long from the Banjarmasin Thermal Power Plant to Cempaka; (b)
about forty three (43) kilometer long from Cempaka substation to Trisakti
substation, with an interconnection at Trisakti of the one hundred fifty
(150) kilovolt bus with the seventy (70) kilovolt bus, and (c) about one
hundred ten (110) kilometer long, from Cempaka to Barikin.

Part C:   Mobile Power Plants

1.  Provision of two (2) barge-mounted mobile power plants of ten (10)
megawatt and thirty (30) megawatt generating capacity powered by diesel



engines and gas turbines respectively.

Part D:   Institutional Strengthening and Reform

1.  Corporate: (a) reorganization; and (b) restructuring of PLN with a view
to commercializing and decentralizing PLN’s management, administration,
operations, accounting, and finance.

2.  Establishment of guidelines to govern private sector participation in
the development of the Borrower’s power sector.

3.  Preparation and implementation of principles and guidelines defining the
participation of publicly-owned and private enterprises in the Borrower’s
power sector.

4.  Strengthening of the Borrower’s environmental management in the coal
mining sector through the improvement of its environmental policy and
regulatory framework and its environmental regulation enforcement capability
in coal mines.

5.  Strengthening of PLN’s environmental management capability through the
establishment of a specialized environmental unit within PLN to, inter alia,
formulate corporate environment policies, including resettlement plans,
evaluate environmental assessments of its development projects and
management plans, and to monitor environmental impacts including compliance
with regulations.

6.  (a) Conducting an evaluation of alternative demand management program
options, including technologies, delivery mechanisms and promotional
framework; (b) developing PLN’s institutional capability to conduct and/or
manage the full range of activities required to implement the demand
management options; (c) training of PLN and DGEED staff in the areas of
demand management program design, monitoring and evaluation.

7.  Carrying out of pilot projects in PLN’s regions IV and VI involving
decentralization aimed at efficiency improvement of PLN’s operations.

                                   * * *

    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.

                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*

February 15, 2000                               4,935,000
August 15, 2000                                 5,115,000
February 15, 2001                               5,300,000
August 15, 2001                                 5,495,000
February 15, 2002                               5,695,000
August 15, 2002                                 5,900,000
February 15, 2003                               6,115,000
August 15, 2003                                 6,335,000
February 15, 2004                               6,565,000
August 15, 2004                                 6,805,000
February 15, 2005                               7,055,000
August 15, 2005                                 7,310,000
February 15, 2006                               7,575,000
August 15, 2006                                 7,850,000
February 15, 2007                               8,135,000
August 15, 2007                                 8,430,000
February 15, 2008                               8,740,000
August 15, 2008                                 9,055,000
February 15, 2009                               9,385,000
August 15, 2009                                 9,725,000
February 15, 2010                              10,080,000
August 15, 2010                                10,445,000
February 15, 2011                              10,825,000



August 15, 2011                                11,220,000
February 15, 2012                              11,625,000
August 15, 2012                                12,050,000
February 15, 2013                              12,485,000
August 15, 2013                                12,940,000
February 15, 2014                              13,410,000
August 15, 2014                                13,900,000

_____________________________
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment

    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

    Time of Prepayment             Premium

                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:

Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity

More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity

More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity

More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity

More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity

More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity

                                SCHEDULE 4

                              Special Account

1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:

    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, and 3 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

    (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and

    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.

2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.



3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:

    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.

          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.

    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:

    (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or

    (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

    (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.



    (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.