World Bank Document


                                                           CONFORMED COPY

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3804 POL

                              Loan Agreement

                  (Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan)

                                  between

                            REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                    and

                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT

                          Dated October 28, 1994

                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3804 POL

                              LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the international banking community has responded
favorably to the Borrower’s request, dated May 23, 1994 and denominated
"1994 Financing Proposals" (the 1994 Financing Plan), for participation in
a debt and debt service reduction program of the Borrower;

      (B)   the Borrower has requested the assistance of the Bank in
financing of a portion of the cost, under the above debt and debt service
reduction program, of the Purchase (as hereinafter defined) of the Eligible
Debt (as hereinafter defined) and associated interest;

      (C)   the Borrower has also requested the assistance of the
International Monetary Fund for financing a portion of the cost of the debt
and debt service reduction program; and

      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;

P
u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d
P

u
b
lic

 D
is

cl
o
su

re
 A

u
th

o
ri
ze

d



      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:

      (a)   "Closing Agent" means the closing agent or similar agent
appointed by the Borrower for the purposes of concluding the Debt Purchase
Agreements (as hereinafter defined);

      (b)   "Debt Purchase Agreements" mean final legal documentation
evidencing the acceptance by the Borrower of the tenders received in
response to the Debt Purchase Offer (as hereinafter defined);

      (c)   "Debt Purchase Offer" means the debt purchase offer made by the
Borrower under the agreements entered into pursuant to the 1994 Financing
Plan;

      (d)   "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in the
1994 Financing Plan;

      (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;

      (f)   "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement entered into or
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, relating to the use
of Set-aside Funds (as hereinafter defined);

      (g)   "Participating Lenders" mean the commercial banks and other
financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have executed the Debt
Purchase Agreements;

      (h)   "Purchase" means the aggregate of cash payments made by the
Borrower to Participating Lenders under the Debt Purchase Agreements and to
be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "Specific
Purchase" means the specific portions of the Purchase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan under Category (1) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

      (i)   "Set-aside Funds" mean the funds allocated under any other loan
made by the Bank to the Borrower for the purposes of financing the carrying
out of the 1994 Financing Plan.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 The Loan

      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred and seventy million dollars ($170,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.

      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the



Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.

      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.

      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.

      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:

            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.

           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.

          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.

      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:

            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
      of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
      for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
      (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
      amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."

            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
      Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
      determined in respect of such Quarter."

            "(c)  (iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on
      January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."

      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.

      Section 2.08. (a) The Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, require the
Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion of the principal
amount of the Loan then outstanding as specified below together with all
accrued interest and other charges thereon, if the Bank shall have
determined at any time that any amount of the Loan has not been used for the
purpose of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  In



this case the amount of the Loan subject to prepayment shall be such amount
as shall have been so determined.

      (b)   The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of the
event listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5) working days
of the occurrence thereof.

      (c)   The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium payable under
Schedule 3 to this Agreement on prepayment of any portion of the Loan
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.

      (d)   Prepayment of all or any portion of the Loan in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a date and in the currency
specified by the Bank and the amount so prepaid shall be deleted from the
Central Disbursement Account on such date.

      Section 2.09. The Borrower’s officers appointed by the representative
of the Borrower stipulated in Section 7.01 of this Agreement are hereby
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions including,
without limitation, preparing withdrawal applications under the Loan and
collecting the documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Bank in
support of such applications.

                                ARTICLE III

                            Financial Covenants

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the payments made in respect of the Project
and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

      (b)   The Borrower shall:

            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;

           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:

            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;

           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (certificates, contracts, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate



                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                                ARTICLE IV

                              Other Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views on the 1994 Financing Plan.

      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views in respect of the 1994
Financing Plan, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment a report on the 1994 Financing Plan in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.

                                 ARTICLE V

                           Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable, in the opinion of the Bank, that the
1994 Financing Plan, or any significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                                ARTICLE VI

                        Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:

      (a)   that the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of adequate resources to
implement the 1994 Financing Plan;

      (b)   that the Implementation Agreement has become effective, in
accordance with its terms; and

      (c)   that the Borrower has entered, pursuant to the 1994 Financing
Plan, into Debt Purchase Agreements with Participating Lenders for the
Purchase of Eligible Debt and associated interest of an amount equivalent
to approximately $1,324,551,405.96, and for the exchange of Eligible Debt
(i) for Par Bonds due October 27, 2024 of an amount equivalent to
approximately $929,945,000; (ii) for Discount Bonds due October 27, 2024 of
an amount equivalent to approximately $2,970,214,000; (iii) for RSTA Bonds
due October 27, 2024 of an amount equivalent to approximately $899,841,000;
(iv) for PDI Bonds due October 27, 2014 of an amount equivalent to
approximately $2,651,237,000; (v) for Debt Conversion Bonds due October 27,
2019 of an amount equivalent to approximately $393,017,000; and (vi) for New
Money Bonds due October 27, 2009 of an amount equivalent to approximately
$137,556,000.

      Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days from the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.

                                ARTICLE VII

                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:



            Ministry of Finance
            ul. Swietokrzyska 12
            Warsaw, Poland

                                          Telex:

                                            825592 (MINFIN PL)
                                            814386 (MINFIN PL)

      For the Bank:

            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable Address:                Telex:

                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.

                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                  By /s/ Jacek Tomorowicz
                                                Authorized Representative

                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                  By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1

                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

1.    The table below sets forth the Category of expenditures made by the
Borrower in respect of the Specific Purchases to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in such Category:

                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed

(1) Specific                 170,000,000        100% of foreign
    Purchases                                   expenditures
                             ___________

         TOTAL               170,000,000
                             ===========

2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the
Borrower for the Specific Purchases.



3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made (a) in respect of the Specific Purchases unless the Bank shall
have approved the procedures for such withdrawals; (b) in respect of any
Specific Purchase, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a
certificate in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank showing that the
corresponding agreement(s) referred to in Part A of the Project, providing
for the Specific Purchase, remain in full force and effect; and (c) except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Set-Aside Funds are being disbursed
concurrently with the proceeds of the Loan.
                                SCHEDULE 2

                        Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s 1994
Financing Plan.

      The Project consists of the following parts which are subject to such
modifications thereto as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objective.

Part A:

      Purchase of Eligible Debt and associated interest by the Borrower
under the agreement(s) entered into pursuant to the 1994 Financing Plan.

Part B:

      Provision of Collateral for the purpose of securing the payment of
principal on certain of the debt instruments to be issued pursuant to the
1994 Financing Plan.
                                SCHEDULE 3

                           Amortization Schedule

                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*

On each January 15 and July 15

      beginning July 15, 2000
      through   July 15, 2011                      7,085,000

And on January 15, 2012                            7,045,000

_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
      of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
      Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment

      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:

      Time of Prepayment                        Premium

                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied by:

Not more than three years                        0.18
     before maturity



More than three years but                        0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity

More than six years but                          0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity

More than eleven years but not                   0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity

More than fifteen years before                   1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4

                    Modifications of General Conditions

      For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:

1.    The following provisions of the General Conditions are deleted:

      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02.

      (b)   Section 5.02.

      (c)   Section 5.04.

      (d)   Section 5.08.

      (e)   The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel any
amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have entered into a
special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.01.

      (f)   Clause (c) of Section 6.03.

      (g)   Section 6.04.

      (h)   The phrase "and not subject to any special commitment entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02" in Section 6.07.

      (i)   Section 9.04.

      (j)   Section 9.05.

      (k)   Section 9.06.

      (l)   Section 9.08.

      (m)   Section 9.09.

2.    Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made.
      Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
      withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the respective
      currencies in which the payments to be financed out of the proceeds
      of the Loan have been made or are to be made."

3.    The last sentence of Section 4.02 (a) shall be modified to read:

            "Each such amount shall be deleted from the Central
      Disbursement Account on the date it becomes due or such earlier date
      as may be accepted by the Bank for prepayment or as may be specified
      for prepayment pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

4.    The second sentence of Section 4.02 (c) shall be modified to read:

            "Each such amount shall be deleted from such sub-account on the
      date it becomes due or such earlier date as may be accepted for



      prepayment or as may be specified for prepayment pursuant to the Loan
      Agreement."

5.    Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account. The Borrower
      shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account amounts paid for
      the purposes of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the
      Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions."

6.    Section 5.03 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal. When the Borrower
      shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Loan Account, the
      Borrower shall deliver to the Bank a written application in such
      form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the Bank
      shall reasonably request."

7.    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1)
and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:

            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank’s Articles of
      Agreement."

8.    Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:

            "Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall: (i)
      maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
      progress of the 1994 Financing Plan (including its cost and the
      benefits to be derived from it), to identify the payments financed
      out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
      1994 Financing Plan; (ii) enable the Bank’s representatives to
      examine the records and documents relevant to the performance of the
      obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement; and (iii)
      furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the
      Bank shall reasonably request concerning the 1994 Financing Plan, its
      cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, and
      the payments financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

            (b)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
      report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
      request, on the carrying out of the 1994 Financing Plan, its cost and
      the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
      the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
      Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."�